THE CONSTITUTION 
OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

THE BASIC LAW 
OF THE HONG KONG  
SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGION  
OF THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

May 2021 edition 

Important Notice 

The information contained in this booklet has no legal status, and is made 
available  for  information  only  and  should  not  be  relied  on  as  an  official 
version of the Constitution of the People’s Republic of China, the Basic Law 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of 
China and related constitutional instruments herein. 

 
 
Contents 

The Constitution of the People’s Republic of China 

Preamble 

.........................................................................................  3 

Chapter I 

General Principles.............................................................  7 

Chapter II 

Fundamental Rights and Obligations of Citizens .............  18 

Chapter III 

State Institutions ..............................................................  24 

Section 1  The National People’s Congress .......................................  24 
Section 2  The President of the People’s Republic of China ..............  33 
Section 3  The State Council .............................................................  35 
Section 4  The Central Military Commission ....................................  39 
Section 5  Local  People’s  Congresses  at  All  Levels  and  Local 

People’s Governments at All Levels..................................  39 
Section 6  Autonomous Organs of Ethnic Autonomous Areas .........  45 
Section 7  Commissions of Supervision.............................................  47 
Section 8  People’s Courts and People’s Procuratorates....................  49 

Chapter IV 

The National Flag, National Anthem, National Emblem 
and the Capital .................................................................  52 

The Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of 

the People’s Republic of China 

Decree of the President of the People’s Republic of China ...........................  55 

The Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of 
the People’s Republic of China....................................................................  56 

Preamble 

.........................................................................................  57 

Chapter I 

General Principles.............................................................  58 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Chapter II 

Relationship  between  the  Central  Authorities  and 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ................  61 

Chapter III 

Fundamental Rights and Duties of the Residents.............  66 

Chapter IV 

Political Structure .............................................................  71 

Section 1  The Chief Executive..........................................................  71 
Section 2  The Executive Authorities ................................................  77 
Section 3  The Legislature.................................................................  78 
Section 4  The Judiciary ....................................................................  83 
Section 5  District Organizations ......................................................  87 
Section 6  Public Servants .................................................................  87 

Chapter V 

Economy ..........................................................................  90 

Section 1  Public  Finance,  Monetary  Affairs,  Trade,  Industry 

and Commerce..................................................................  90 
Section 2  Land Leases......................................................................  93 
Section 3  Shipping ...........................................................................  94 
Section 4  Civil Aviation ...................................................................  95 

Chapter VI 

Education,  Science,  Culture,  Sports,  Religion,  Labour 
and Social Services............................................................  99 

Chapter VII 

External Affairs ................................................................ 103 

Chapter VIII 

Interpretation and Amendment of the Basic Law............. 106 

Chapter IX 

Supplementary Provisions ................................................ 108 

Annex I 

Annex II 

Method  for  the  Selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  of  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region...................... 109 

Method for the Formation of the Legislative Council of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  Its  Voting 
Procedures ........................................................................ 116 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex III 

National  Laws  to  be  Applied  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region...................................................... 121 

Instrument 1  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress  on  Adding  to  and  Deleting  from  the 
List of the National Laws in Annex III to the Basic Law 
of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of 
the People’s Republic of China (Adopted at the Twenty 
Sixth Meeting of the Standing Committee of the Eighth 
National People’s Congress on 1 July 1997) ..................... 122 

Instrument 2  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress  on  Adding  a  Law  to  the  List  of  the 
National  Laws  in  Annex  III  to  the  Basic  Law  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  (Adopted  on  4  November 
1998)................................................................................. 123 

Instrument 3  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress  on  Adding  a  Law  to  the  List  of  the 
National  Laws  in  Annex  III  to  the  Basic  Law  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  (Adopted  on  27  October 
2005)................................................................................. 124 

Instrument 4  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress  on  Adding  a  Law  to  the  List  of 
the  National  Laws  in  Annex  III  to  the  Basic  Law  of 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  (Adopted  at  the  Thirtieth 
Meeting  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  Twelfth 
National People’s Congress on 4 November 2017) ........... 125 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instrument 5  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s Congress on the Addition to the List of National 
Laws in Annex III to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic 
of  China  (Adopted  at  the  Twentieth  Session  of  the 
Standing Committee of the Thirteenth National People’s 
Congress on 30 June 2020)................................................ 126 

Designs of the Regional Flag and Regional Emblem of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region................................................................... 127 

Instrument 6  Explanations  on  “The  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of 
the  People’s 
Republic  of  China  (Draft)”  and  Its  Related  Documents 
(Addressing  the  Third  Session  of  the  Seventh  National 
People’s Congress on 28 March 1990) .............................. 128 

Instrument 7  Decision of the National People’s Congress on the Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
of the People’s Republic of China (Adopted at the Third 
Session  of  the  Seventh  National  People’s  Congress  on 
4 April 1990)..................................................................... 146 

Instrument 8  Decision  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on  the 
Establishment of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  (Adopted  at  the  Third  Session  of  the  Seventh 
National People’s Congress on 4 April 1990).................... 147 

Instrument 9  Order  of  the  State  Council  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 

China No. 221 .................................................................. 148 

Instrument 10  Decision  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on  the 
Method for the Formation of the First Government and 
the  First  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  (Adopted  at  the  Third  Session 
of  the  Seventh  National  People’s  Congress  on  4  April 
1990)................................................................................. 155 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instrument 11  Decision  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  Approving 
the  Proposal  by  the  Drafting  Committee  for  the  Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
on  the  Establishment  of  the  Committee  for  the  Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
under the Standing Committee of the National People’s 
Congress  (Adopted  at  the  Third  Session  of  the  Seventh 
National People’s Congress on 4 April 1990).................... 158 

Instrument 12  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s Congress on the English Text of the Basic Law 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
People’s Republic of China (Adopted on 28 June 1990) ... 160 

Instrument 13  Explanations  of  Some  Questions  by  the  Standing 
Committee  of 
the  National  People’s  Congress 
Concerning  the  Implementation  of  the  Nationality 
Law  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  in  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  (Adopted  at  the 
Nineteenth  Session  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
Eighth National People’s Congress on 15 May 1996) ..... 161 

Instrument 14  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s Congress on Treatment of the Laws Previously 
in Force in Hong Kong in Accordance with Article 160 of 
the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  (Adopted  at 
the Twenty Fourth Session of the Standing Committee of 
the  Eighth  National  People’s  Congress  on  23  February 
1997)................................................................................. 163 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instrument 15  The  Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
National  People’s  Congress  Regarding  Paragraph  4  in 
Article 22 and Category (3) of Paragraph 2 in Article 24 of 
the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  (Adopted 
at  the  Tenth  Meeting  of  the  Standing  Committee  of 
the  Ninth  National  People’s  Congress  on  26  June 
1999)................................................................................. 171 

Instrument 16  The  Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
National  People’s  Congress  Regarding  Annex  I  (7) 
and  Annex  II  (III)  to  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic 
of China (Adopted at the Eighth Meeting of the Standing 
Committee of the Tenth National People’s Congress on 6 
April 2004)........................................................................ 174 

Instrument 17  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s Congress on Issues Relating to the Methods for 
Selecting the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region in the Year 2007 and for Forming 
the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region in the Year 2008 (Adopted at the 
Ninth  Session  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  Tenth 
National People’s Congress on 26 April 2004).................. 177 

Instrument 18  Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
National  People’s  Congress  Regarding  the  Second 
Paragraph  in  Article  53  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s 
Republic of China (Adopted at the Fifteenth Meeting of 
the Standing Committee of the Tenth National People’s 
Congress on 27 April 2005)............................................... 181 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instrument 19  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s Congress on Issues Relating to the Methods for 
Selecting the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  and  for  Forming  the  Legislative 
Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  in  the  Year  2012  and  on  Issues  Relating  to 
Universal  Suffrage  (Adopted  at  the  Thirty  First  Session 
of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  Tenth  National 
People’s Congress on 29 December 2007) ......................... 183 

Instrument 20  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress  on  Approving  the  “Amendment  to 
Annex  I  to  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 
Concerning  the  Method  for  the  Selection  of  the  Chief 
Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region”  (Adopted  at  the  Sixteenth  Session  of  the 
Standing  Committee  of  the  Eleventh  National  People’s 
Congress on 28 August 2010)............................................ 187 

Instrument 21  Amendment  to  Annex  I  to  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China  Concerning  the  Method  for  the 
Selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region 
the 
Sixteenth  Session  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
Eleventh  National  People’s  Congress  on  28  August 
2010)................................................................................. 189 

(Approved  at 

Instrument 22  Proclamation of the Standing Committee of the National 
People’s Congress (Eleventh National People’s Congress) 
No. 15............................................................................... 190 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instrument 23  Amendment  to  Annex  II  to  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China  Concerning  the  Method  for  the 
Formation of the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region and Its Voting Procedures 
(Recorded  at  the  Sixteenth  Session  of  the  Standing 
Committee  of  the  Eleventh  National  People’s  Congress 
on 28 August 2010)........................................................... 191 

Instrument 24  Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
National  People’s  Congress  Regarding 
the  First 
Paragraph  of  Article  13  and  Article  19  of  the  Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  (Adopted  at  the 
Twenty  Second  Meeting  of  the  Standing  Committee  of 
the  Eleventh  National  People’s  Congress  on  26  August 
2011)................................................................................. 192 

Instrument 25  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress  on  Issues  Relating  to  the  Selection 
of  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  by  Universal  Suffrage  and  on 
the  Method  for  Forming  the  Legislative  Council  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  the  Year 
2016  (Adopted  at  the  Tenth  Session  of  the  Standing 
Committee of the Twelfth National People’s Congress on 
31 August 2014)  ............................................................... 197 

Instrument 26  Explanations  on  the  Draft  Decision  of  the  Standing 
Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on  Issues 
Relating  to  the  Selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  of  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region by Universal 
Suffrage and on the Method for Forming the Legislative 
Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  in  the  Year  2016  (At  the  Tenth  Session  of  the 
Standing  Committee  of  the  Twelfth  National  People’s 
Congress on 27 August 2014)............................................ 203 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instrument 27  Interpretation  of  Article  104  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  by  the  Standing  Committee 
of  the  National  People’s  Congress  (Adopted  by  the 
Standing  Committee  of  the  Twelfth  National  People’s 
Congress  at  its  Twenty  Fourth  Session  on  7  November 
2016)................................................................................. 217 

Instrument 28  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress  on  the  Continuing  Discharge  of 
Duties  by  the  Sixth  Term  Legislative  Council  of  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (Adopted at 
the  Twenty  First  Session  of  the  Standing  Committee  of 
the Thirteenth National People’s Congress on 11 August 
2020)................................................................................. 220 

Instrument 29  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s Congress on Issues Relating to the Qualification 
of  the  Members  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  (Adopted  at 
the  Twenty  Third  Session  of  the  Standing  Committee 
of  the  Thirteenth  National  People’s  Congress  on 
11 November 2020)........................................................... 222 

Instrument 30  Explanations  on  the  Draft  Decision  of  the  National 
People’s Congress on Improving the Electoral System of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (Adopted 
at the Fourth Session of the Thirteenth National People’s 
Congress on 5 March 2021) .............................................. 225 

Instrument 31  Decision  of 

the  National  People’s  Congress  on 
Improving  the  Electoral  System  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  (Adopted  at  the  Fourth 
Session of the Thirteenth National People’s Congress on 
11 March 2021)................................................................. 234 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSTITUTION OF THE 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

Adopted  at  the  Fifth  Session  of  the  Fifth  National  People’s 
Congress  and  promulgated  by  the  Announcement  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress  on  December  4,  1982;  amended  in  accordance  with 
the  Amendment  to  the  Constitution  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
adopted  at  the  First  Session  of  the  Seventh  National  People’s  Congress 
on  April  12,  1988,  the  Amendment  to  the  Constitution  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China  adopted  at  the  First  Session  of  the  Eighth  National 
People’s Congress on March 29, 1993, the Amendment to the Constitution 
of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  adopted  at  the  Second  Session  of  the 
Ninth National People’s Congress on March 15, 1999, the Amendment to 
the Constitution of the People’s Republic of China adopted at the Second 
Session  of  the  Tenth  National  People’s  Congress  on  March  14,  2004, 
and the Amendment to the Constitution of the People’s Republic of China 
adopted at the First Session of the Thirteenth National People’s Congress 
on March 11, 2018 

 
 
 
Preamble 

China is one of the countries with the longest histories in the world. 
The  Chinese  people  of  all  ethnic  groups  jointly  created  its  magnificent 
culture and have a proud revolutionary tradition. 

After  1840,  feudal  China  gradually  became  a  semi-colonial,  semi-
feudal  country.  The  Chinese  people,  wave  upon  wave,  waged  heroic 
struggles  for  national  independence  and  liberation  and  for  democracy 
and freedom. 

In  the  20th  century,  momentous  historical  changes  took  place  in 

China. 

The Revolution of 1911, led by Dr. Sun Yat-sen, abolished the feudal 
monarchy and gave birth to the Republic of China. However, the historic 
mission of the Chinese people to oppose imperialism and feudalism was 
not yet accomplished. 

In 1949, after engaging in protracted, arduous and tortuous struggles, 
armed and in other forms, the Chinese people of all ethnic groups led by 
the Communist Party of China with Chairman Mao Zedong as its leader 
finally  overthrew  the  rule  of  imperialism,  feudalism  and  bureaucrat-
capitalism, won a great victory in the New Democratic Revolution, and 
founded the People’s Republic of China. The Chinese people thus secured 
power and became masters of their own country. 

After  the  founding  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  our  country 
gradually  achieved  the  transition  from  a  new  democratic  society  to  a 
socialist society. The socialist transformation of private ownership of the 
means  of  production  has  been  completed,  the  system  of  exploitation  of 
man  by  man  abolished,  and  a  socialist  system  established.  The  people’s 
democratic  dictatorship  led  by  the  working  class  and  based  on  an 
alliance of workers and peasants, which in essence is a dictatorship of the 
proletariat,  has  been  consolidated  and  developed.  The  Chinese  people 
and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army have defeated imperialist and 
hegemonist  aggression,  sabotage  and  armed  provocations,  safeguarded 
national  independence  and  security,  and  strengthened  national  defense. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
Major  achievements  have  been  made  in  economic  development.  An 
independent  and  relatively  complete  socialist  industrial  system  has 
now  basically  been  established,  and  agricultural  output  has  markedly 
increased.  Significant  advances  have  been  made  in  education,  science, 
culture  and  other  fields,  and  education  about  socialist  thought  has 
made  notable  progress.  The  lives  of  the  people  have  been  considerably 
improved. 

Both  the  victory  in  China’s  New  Democratic  Revolution  and  the 
successes in its socialist cause have been achieved by the Chinese people 
of  all  ethnic  groups  under  the  leadership  of  the  Communist  Party  of 
China and the guidance of Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought 
by upholding truth, correcting errors, and surmounting many difficulties 
and  obstacles.  Our  country  will  long  remain  in  the  primary  stage  of 
socialism.  The  fundamental  task  for  our  country  is  to  concentrate  on 
achieving  socialist  modernization  along  the  road  of  socialism  with 
Chinese  characteristics.  We  the  Chinese  people  of  all  ethnic  groups 
will  continue,  under  the  leadership  of  the  Communist  Party  of  China 
and  the  guidance  of  Marxism-Leninism,  Mao  Zedong  Thought,  Deng 
Xiaoping Theory, the Theory of Three Represents, the Scientific Outlook 
on  Development  and  Xi  Jinping  Thought  on  Socialism  with  Chinese 
Characteristics  for  a  New  Era,  to  uphold  the  people’s  democratic 
dictatorship, stay on the socialist road, carry out reform and opening up, 
steadily  improve  the  socialist  institutions,  develop  the  socialist  market 
economy and socialist democracy, improve socialist rule of law, apply the 
new  development  philosophy,  and  work  hard  in  a  spirit  of  self-reliance 
to  modernize  step  by  step  the  country’s  industry,  agriculture,  national 
defense, and science and technology and promote coordinated material, 
political,  cultural-ethical,  social  and  ecological  advancement,  in  order 
to build China into a great modern socialist country that is prosperous, 
strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious and beautiful, and 
realize the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. 

In  our  country  the  exploiting  class,  as  a  class,  has  been  eliminated, 
but class struggle will continue to exist within a certain scope for a long 
time  to  come.  The  people  of  China  must  fight  against  those  domestic 
and  foreign  forces  and  elements  that  are  hostile  to  and  undermine  our 
country’s socialist system. 

4 

 
Taiwan  is  part  of  the  sacred  territory  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China. It is the sacred duty of all the Chinese people, including our fellow 
Chinese in Taiwan, to achieve the great reunification of the motherland. 

The  cause  of  building  socialism  must  rely  on  workers,  peasants 
and  intellectuals  and  unite  all  forces  that  can  be  united.  Through  the 
long  process  of  revolution,  development  and  reform,  a  broad  patriotic 
united  front  has  formed  under  the  leadership  of  the  Communist  Party 
of  China,  with  the  participation  of  other  political  parties  and  people’s 
organizations and including all socialist working people, people involved 
in  building  socialism,  patriots  who  support  socialism,  and  patriots  who 
support  China’s  reunification  and  are  dedicated  to  the  rejuvenation  of 
the  Chinese  nation.  This  united  front  will  continue  to  be  consolidated 
and  developed.  The  Chinese  People’s  Political  Consultative  Conference 
is  a  broadly  representative  organization  of  the  united  front,  and  has 
played a significant historical role. In the future, it will play an even more 
important  role  in  the  country’s  political  and  social  life  and  its  friendly 
foreign activities, in socialist modernization and in safeguarding the unity 
and solidarity of the country. The system of multiparty cooperation and 
political  consultation  under  the  leadership  of  the  Communist  Party  of 
China will continue and develop long into the future. 

The People’s Republic of China is a unified multiethnic state founded 
by  the  Chinese  people  of  all  ethnic  groups.  Socialist  ethnic  relations  of 
equality,  unity,  mutual  assistance  and  harmony  are  established  and  will 
continue  to  be  strengthened.  In  the  struggle  to  safeguard  ethnic  unity, 
we  should  oppose  major  ethnic  group  chauvinism,  which  mainly  refers 
to Han chauvinism, and local ethnic chauvinism. The state makes every 
effort to promote the shared prosperity of all the country’s ethnic groups. 

The  achievements  of  China’s  revolution,  development  and  reform 
would  have  been  impossible  without  the  support  of  the  world’s  people. 
The  future  of  China  is  closely  bound  up  with  the  future  of  the  world. 
China pursues an independent foreign policy, observes the five principles 
of  mutual  respect  for  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity,  mutual 
nonaggression,  mutual  noninterference  in  internal  affairs,  equality  and 
mutual  benefit,  and  peaceful  coexistence,  keeps  to  a  path  of  peaceful 
development, follows a mutually beneficial strategy of opening up, works 

5 

to develop diplomatic relations and economic and cultural exchanges with 
other countries, and promotes the building of a human community with a 
shared future. China consistently opposes imperialism, hegemonism and 
colonialism, works to strengthen its solidarity with the people of all other 
countries, supports oppressed peoples and other developing countries in 
their just struggles to win and safeguard their independence and develop 
their  economies,  and  strives  to  safeguard  world  peace  and  promote  the 
cause of human progress. 

This  Constitution  affirms,  in  legal  form,  the  achievements  of  the 
struggles  of  the  Chinese  people  of  all  ethnic  groups  and  stipulates 
the  fundamental  system  and  task  of  the  state.  It  is  the  fundamental 
law  of  the  state  and  has  supreme  legal  force.  The  people  of  all  ethnic 
groups, all state organs and armed forces, all political parties and social 
organizations,  and  all  enterprises  and  public  institutions  in  the  country 
must  treat  the  Constitution  as  the  fundamental  standard  of  conduct; 
they have a duty to uphold the sanctity of the Constitution and ensure its 
compliance. 

6 

 
 
Chapter I  General Principles 

Article 1 

The  People’s  Republic  of  China  is  a  socialist  state  governed  by  a 
people’s  democratic  dictatorship  that  is  led  by  the  working  class  and 
based on an alliance of workers and peasants. 

The  socialist  system  is  the  fundamental  system  of  the  People’s 
Republic of China. Leadership by the Communist Party of China is the 
defining feature of socialism with Chinese characteristics. It is prohibited 
for any organization or individual to damage the socialist system. 

Article 2 

All power in the People’s Republic of China belongs to the people. 

The  organs  through  which  the  people  exercise  state  power  are  the 
National People’s Congress and the local people’s congresses at all levels. 

The  people  shall,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  law,  manage 
state  affairs,  economic  and  cultural  undertakings,  and  social  affairs 
through various channels and in various ways. 

Article 3 

The state institutions of the People’s Republic of China shall practice 

the principle of democratic centralism. 

The  National  People’s  Congress  and  the  local  people’s  congresses 
at  all  levels  shall  be  created  through  democratic  election  and  shall  be 
responsible to the people and subject to their oversight. 

All  administrative,  supervisory,  adjudicatory  and  procuratorial 
organs of the state shall be created by the people’s congresses and shall 
be responsible to them and subject to their oversight. 

The  division  of  functions  and  powers  between  the  central  and  local 
state  institutions  shall  honor  the  principle  of  giving  full  play  to  the 

7 

 
initiative and motivation of local authorities under the unified leadership 
of the central authorities. 

Article 4 

All  ethnic  groups  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  are  equal.  The 
state  shall  protect  the  lawful  rights  and  interests  of  all  ethnic  minorities 
and  uphold  and  promote  relations  of  equality,  unity,  mutual  assistance 
and  harmony  among  all  ethnic  groups.  Discrimination  against  and 
oppression of any ethnic group are prohibited; any act that undermines 
the unity of ethnic groups or creates divisions among them is prohibited. 

The state shall, in light of the characteristics and needs of all ethnic 
minorities, assist all ethnic minority areas in accelerating their economic 
and cultural development. 

All  areas  inhabited  by  ethnic  minorities  shall  practice  regional 
autonomy, establish autonomous organs, and exercise the power to self-
govern. All ethnic autonomous areas are inseparable parts of the People’s 
Republic of China. 

All  ethnic  groups  shall  have  the  freedom  to  use  and  develop  their 
own spoken and written languages and to preserve or reform their own 
traditions and customs. 

Article 5 

The People’s Republic of China shall practice law-based governance 

and build a socialist state under the rule of law. 

The state shall safeguard the unity and sanctity of the socialist legal 

system. 

No  law,  administrative  regulation  or  local  regulation  shall  be  in 

conflict with the Constitution. 

All  state  organs  and  armed  forces,  all  political  parties  and  social 
organizations,  and  all  enterprises  and  public  institutions  must  abide  by 
the Constitution and the law. Accountability must be enforced for all acts 
that violate the Constitution or laws. 

8 

 
No  organization  or  individual  shall  have  any  privilege  beyond  the 

Constitution or the law. 

Article 6 

The  foundation  of  the  socialist  economic  system  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China  is  socialist  public  ownership  of  the  means  of 
production,  that  is,  ownership  by  the  whole  people  and  collective 
ownership  by  the  working  people.  The  system  of  socialist  public 
ownership has eradicated the system of exploitation of man by man, and 
practices  the  principle  of  “from  each  according  to  his  ability,  to  each 
according to his work.” 

In  the  primary  stage  of  socialism,  the  state  shall  uphold  a 
fundamental  economic  system  under  which  public  ownership  is  the 
mainstay  and  diverse  forms  of  ownership  develop  together,  and  shall 
uphold an income distribution system under which distribution according 
to  work  is  the  mainstay,  while  multiple  forms  of  distribution  exist 
alongside it. 

Article 7 

The  state  sector  of  the  economy,  that  is,  the  sector  of  the  socialist 
economy under ownership by the whole people, shall be the leading force 
in the economy. The state shall ensure the consolidation and development 
of the state sector of the economy. 

Article 8 

Rural  collective  economic  organizations  shall  practice  a  two-tiered 
system of both unified and separate operations with household contract 
management  as  its  basis.  Rural  economic  cooperatives  —  producer, 
supply  and  marketing,  credit  and  consumer  cooperatives  —  are  part  of 
the socialist economy under collective ownership by the working people. 
Working  people  who  belong  to  rural  collective  economic  organizations 
shall have the right, within the scope prescribed by law, to farm cropland 
and  hillsides  allotted  to  them  for  their  private  use,  engage  in  household 
sideline production, and raise privately owned livestock. 

9 

 
 
The  various  forms  of  cooperative  economic  activities  in  cities  and 
towns,  such  as  those  in  the  handicraft,  industrial,  building,  transport, 
commercial and service trades, shall all be part of the socialist economy 
under collective ownership by the working people. 

The  state  shall  protect  the  lawful  rights  and  interests  of  urban  and 
rural  collective  economic  organizations  and  shall  encourage,  guide  and 
assist the growth of the collective sector of the economy. 

Article 9 

All  mineral  resources,  waters,  forests,  mountains,  grasslands, 
unreclaimed  land,  mudflats  and  other  natural  resources  are  owned  by 
the state, that is, by the whole people, except for the forests, mountains, 
grasslands, unreclaimed land and mudflats that are owned by collectives 
as prescribed by law. 

The  state  shall  ensure  the  rational  use  of  natural  resources  and 
protect rare animals and plants. It is prohibited for any organization or 
individual to seize or damage natural resources by any means. 

Article 10 

Land in cities is owned by the state. 

Land  in  rural  and  suburban  areas  is  owned  by  collectives  except 
for  that  which  belongs  to  the  state  as  prescribed  by  law;  housing  sites 
and  cropland  and  hillsides  allotted  for  private  use  are  also  owned  by 
collectives. 

The  state  may,  in  order  to  meet  the  demands  of  the  public  interest 
and in accordance with the provisions of law, expropriate or requisition 
land and furnish compensation. 

No organization or individual shall unlawfully transfer land through 
seizure, sale and purchase, or in any other form. Land-use rights may be 
transferred in accordance with the provisions of law. 

All  organizations  and  individuals  using  land  must  use  it  in  an 

appropriate manner. 

10 

Article 11 

Non-public economic sectors that are within the scope prescribed by 
law, such as individually owned and private businesses, are an important 
component of the socialist market economy. 

The  state  shall  protect  the  lawful  rights  and  interests  of  non-public 
economic sectors such as individually owned and private businesses. The 
state shall encourage, support and guide the development of non-public 
economic  sectors  and  exercise  oversight  and  regulation  over  non-public 
economic sectors in accordance with law. 

Article 12 

Socialist public property is sacred and inviolable. 

The  state  shall  protect  socialist  public  property.  It  is  prohibited  for 
any  organization  or  individual  to  seize  or  damage  state  or  collective 
property by any means. 

Article 13 

Citizens’ lawful private property is inviolable. 

The state shall protect the right of citizens to own and inherit private 

property in accordance with the provisions of law. 

The  state  may,  in  order  to  meet  the  demands  of  the  public  interest 
and in accordance with the provisions of law, expropriate or requisition 
citizens’ private property and furnish compensation. 

Article 14 

The  state  shall  continually  raise  labor  productivity  and  improve 
economic  performance  to  develop  productive  forces  by  increasing 
working  people’s  motivation  and  level  of  technical  skill,  promoting 
advanced  science  and  technology,  improving  the  systems  of  economic 
management  and  enterprise  operation  and  management,  practicing 
different  forms  of  socialist  responsibility  system  and  improving  the 
organization of work. 

11 

The state shall practice strict economy and combat waste. 

The state shall appropriately handle accumulation and consumption, 
give  due  consideration  at  once  to  the  interests  of  the  state,  collectives 
and individuals and, based on the development of production, gradually 
improve the material and cultural wellbeing of the people. 

The  state  shall  establish  a  sound  social  security  system  compatible 

with the level of economic development. 

Article 15 

The state shall practice a socialist market economy. 

The  state  shall  strengthen  economic  legislation  and  improve  macro 

regulation. 

The  state  shall,  in  accordance  with  law,  prohibit  disruption  of  the 

socioeconomic order by any organization or individual. 

Article 16 

State-owned  enterprises  shall,  within  the  scope  prescribed  by  law, 

have the right to operate autonomously. 

State-owned  enterprises  shall,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
law, practice democratic management through employee congresses and 
other means. 

Article 17 

Collective  economic  organizations  shall,  on  the  condition  that  they 
abide  by  relevant  laws,  have  the  autonomy  to  independently  conduct 
economic activities. 

Collective  economic  organizations 

shall  practice  democratic 
management  and  shall,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  law,  elect 
and  remove  their  management  personnel  and  decide  on  major  issues 
concerning their operations and management. 

12 

Article 18 

The People’s Republic of China shall permit foreign enterprises, other 
economic organizations and individuals, to invest in China and to enter 
into various forms of economic cooperation with Chinese enterprises or 
other economic organizations in accordance with the provisions of law of 
the People’s Republic of China. 

All  foreign  enterprises,  other  foreign  economic  organizations  and 
Chinese-foreign joint ventures in the territory of China shall abide by the 
law  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China.  Their  lawful  rights  and  interests 
shall be protected by the law of the People’s Republic of China. 

Article 19 

The state shall develop socialist education to raise the scientific and 

cultural level of the whole nation. 

The state shall run schools of all types, provide universal compulsory 
primary education, develop secondary, vocational and higher education, 
and also develop preschool education. 

The  state  shall  develop  different  types  of  educational  facilities, 
eliminate  illiteracy,  provide  political,  cultural,  scientific,  technical  and 
field-specific  education  for  workers,  peasants,  state  employees  and 
other  working  people,  and  encourage  people  to  become  accomplished 
individuals through self-study. 

The  state  shall  encourage  collective  economic  organizations,  state 
enterprises,  public  institutions  and  other  social  actors  to  run  education 
programs of various types in accordance with the provisions of law. 

The  state  shall  promote  the  common  speech  —  putonghua  —  used 

nationwide. 

Article 20 

The  state  shall  develop  the  natural  and  social  sciences,  disseminate 
scientific  and  technological  knowledge,  and  commend  and  award 
research achievements and technological discoveries and inventions. 

13 

 
 
Article 21 

To  protect  the  people’s  health,  the  state  shall  develop  medical  and 
health care, develop modern medicine and traditional Chinese medicine, 
encourage  and  support  the  running  of  various  medical  and  health 
facilities  by  rural  collective  economic  organizations,  state  enterprises, 
public institutions and neighborhood organizations, and promote public 
health activities. 

To  improve  the  people’s  physical  fitness,  the  state  shall  develop 

sports and promote public sports activities. 

Article 22 

The  state  shall  develop  art  and  literature,  the  press,  radio  and 
television  broadcasting,  publishing,  libraries,  museums  and  cultural 
centers,  and  other  cultural  undertakings  that  serve  the  people  and 
socialism; and shall promote public cultural activities. 

The state shall protect places of scenic beauty and historical interest, 
valuable  cultural  relics  and  other  forms  of  important  historical  and 
cultural heritage. 

Article 23 

The  state  shall  train  all  kinds  of  specialized  personnel  to  serve 
socialism, expand the ranks of intellectuals, and create the conditions for 
giving full play to their role in socialist modernization. 

Article 24 

The  state  shall  promote  socialist  cultural-ethical  advancement 
through widely accessible education on ideals, morality, culture, discipline 
and law, and through the formulation and observance of different forms 
of rules of conduct and public pledges among different urban and rural 
populations. 

The  state  shall  champion  core  socialist  values;  advocate  the  civic 
virtues of love for the motherland, for  the people, for work,  for science 
and  for  socialism;  educate  the  people  in  patriotism  and  collectivism, 
in  internationalism  and  communism,  and  in  dialectical  and  historical 

14 

 
materialism;  and  combat  capitalist,  feudal  and  other  forms  of  decadent 
thought. 

Article 25 

The  state  shall  promote  family  planning  to  see  that  population 

growth is consistent with economic and social development plans. 

Article 26 

The  state  shall  protect  and  improve  living  environments  and  the 
ecological  environment,  and  prevent  and  control  pollution  and  other 
public hazards. 

The  state  shall  organize  and  encourage  afforestation  and  protect 

forests. 

Article 27 

All  state  organs  shall  practice  the  principle  of  lean  and  efficient 
administration,  a  work  responsibility  system,  and  a  system  of  employee 
training  and  evaluation  in  order  to  keep  improving  the  quality  and 
efficiency of their work and combat bureaucratism. 

All state organs and state employees must rely on the support of the 
people, stay engaged with them, listen to their opinions and suggestions, 
accept their oversight, and work hard to serve them. 

State employees, when assuming office, should make a public pledge 
of  allegiance  to  the  Constitution  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
law. 

Article 28 

The  state  shall  maintain  public  order,  suppress  treason  and  other 
criminal  activities  that  jeopardize  national  security,  punish  criminal 
activities,  including  those  that  endanger  public  security  or  harm  the 
socialist economy, and punish and reform criminals. 

15 

Article 29 

The  armed  forces  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  belong  to 
the  people.  Their  missions  are  to  strengthen  national  defense,  resist 
aggression, defend the motherland, safeguard the people’s peaceful work, 
participate in national development, and work hard to serve the people. 

The  state  shall  make  the  armed  forces  more  revolutionary,  more 
modernized and better regulated in order to strengthen national defense 
capabilities. 

Article 30 

The administrative areas of the People’s Republic of China shall be 

delineated as follows: 

(1)  The  country  consists  of  provinces,  autonomous  regions  and 

cities directly under central government jurisdiction; 

(2)  Provinces  and  autonomous  regions  consist  of  autonomous 
prefectures, counties, autonomous counties and cities; and 

(3)  Counties and autonomous counties consist of townships, ethnic 

townships and towns. 

Cities directly under central government jurisdiction and other large 
cities consist of districts and counties. Autonomous prefectures consist of 
counties, autonomous counties and cities. 

All  autonomous  regions,  autonomous  prefectures  and  autonomous 

counties are ethnic autonomous areas. 

Article 31 

The  state  may  establish  special  administrative  regions  when 
necessary.  The  systems  instituted  in  special  administrative  regions  shall, 
in  light  of  specific  circumstances,  be  prescribed  by  laws  enacted  by  the 
National People’s Congress. 

16 

 
 
 
Article 32 

The  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  protect  the  lawful  rights  and 
interests of foreigners in the territory of China; foreigners in the territory 
of China must abide by the law of the People’s Republic of China. 

The People’s Republic of China may grant asylum to foreigners who 

request it on political grounds. 

17 

Chapter II  Fundamental Rights and Obligations of Citizens 

Article 33 

All persons holding the nationality of the People’s Republic of China 

are citizens of the People’s Republic of China. 

All  citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  are  equal  before  the 

law. 

The state shall respect and protect human rights. 

Every citizen shall enjoy the rights prescribed by the Constitution and 
the  law  and  must  fulfill  the  obligations  prescribed  by  the  Constitution 
and the law. 

Article 34 

All  citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  who  have  reached 
the  age  of  18,  regardless  of  ethnicity,  race,  gender,  occupation,  family 
background, religious belief, level of education, property status or length 
of residence, shall have the right to vote and stand for election; persons 
deprived of political rights in accordance with law shall be an exception. 

Article 35 

Citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  enjoy  freedom  of 

speech, the press, assembly, association, procession and demonstration. 

Article 36 

Citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  enjoy  freedom  of 

religious belief. 

No state organ, social organization or individual shall coerce citizens 
to believe in or not to believe in any religion, nor shall they discriminate 
against citizens who believe in or do not believe in any religion. 

18 

 
 
The  state  shall  protect  normal  religious  activities.  No  one  shall  use 
religion to engage in activities that disrupt public order, impair the health 
of citizens or interfere with the state’s education system. 

Religious groups and religious affairs shall not be subject to control 

by foreign forces. 

Article 37 

The  personal  freedom  of  citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 

shall not be violated. 

No  citizen  shall  be  arrested  unless  with  the  approval  or  by  the 
decision  of  a  people’s  procuratorate  or  by  the  decision  of  a  people’s 
court, and arrests must be made by a public security organ. 

Unlawful  detention,  or  the  unlawful  deprivation  or  restriction  of  a 
citizen’s  personal  freedom  by  other  means,  is  prohibited;  the  unlawful 
search of a citizen’s person is prohibited. 

Article 38 

The  personal  dignity  of  citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
shall not be violated. It is prohibited to use any means to insult, libel or 
falsely accuse citizens. 

Article 39 

The  homes  of  citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  are 
inviolable.  The  unlawful  search  of  or  unlawful  intrusion  into  a  citizen’s 
home is prohibited. 

Article 40 

Freedom  and  confidentiality  of  correspondence  of  citizens  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  be  protected  by  law.  Except  in  cases 
necessary  for  national  security  or  criminal  investigation,  when  public 
security  organs  or  procuratorial  organs  shall  examine  correspondence 
in  accordance  with  procedures  prescribed  by  law,  no  organization  or 
individual  shall  infringe  on  a  citizen’s  freedom  and  confidentiality  of 
correspondence for any reason. 

19 

Article 41 

Citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  have  the  right 
to  criticize  and  make  suggestions  regarding  any  state  organ  or  state 
employee, and have the right to file with relevant state organs complaints, 
charges  or  reports  against  any  state  organ  or  state  employee  for 
violations of the law or dereliction of duty, but they shall not fabricate or 
distort facts to make false accusations. 

The  state  organ  concerned  must  ascertain  the  facts  concerning  the 
complaints,  charges  or  reports  made  by  citizens  and  take  responsibility 
for  their  handling.  No  one  shall  suppress  such  complaints,  charges  or 
reports or take retaliatory action. 

Persons who have suffered losses resulting from infringement of their 
civil  rights  by  any  state  organ  or  state  employee  shall  have  the  right  to 
receive compensation in accordance with the provisions of law. 

Article 42 

Citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  have  the  right  and 

the obligation to work. 

The  state  shall,  in  various  ways,  create  employment  opportunities, 
strengthen  worker  protections,  improve  working  conditions  and,  based 
on the development of production, increase remuneration for work and 
work-related benefits. 

Work  is  an  honorable  duty  for  every  citizen  who  is  able  to  work. 
All  working  people  in  state  owned  enterprises  and  in  urban  and  rural 
collective  economic  organizations  should  approach  their  own  work  as 
masters of their country. The state shall encourage socialist work contests 
and  commend  and  award  model  workers  and  advanced  workers.  The 
state shall encourage citizens to participate in voluntary work. 

The  state  shall  provide  necessary  pre-employment  training  for  its 

citizens. 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 43 

Working  people  in  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  have  the 

right to rest. 

The  state  shall  develop  rest  and  recuperation  facilities  for  working 
people and stipulate systems for employee working hours and vacations. 

Article 44 

The state shall, in accordance with the provisions of law, implement 
a retirement system for employees of enterprises, public institutions and 
state organs. The livelihood of retirees shall be ensured by the state and 
society. 

Article 45 

Citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  have  the  right  to 
material  assistance  from  the  state  and  society  when  they  are  aged,  ill 
or  have  lost  the  capacity  to  work.  The  state  shall  develop  the  social 
insurance,  social  relief,  and  medical  and  health  services  necessary  for 
citizens to enjoy this right. 

The  state  and  society  shall  guarantee  the  livelihood  of  disabled 
military personnel, provide pensions to the families of martyrs, and give 
preferential treatment to the family members of military personnel. 

The  state  and  society  shall  assist  arrangements  for  the  work, 
livelihood  and  education  of  citizens  who  are  blind,  deaf,  mute  or  have 
other disabilities. 

Article 46 

Citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  have  the  right  and 

the obligation to receive education. 

The  state  shall  foster  the  all-round  moral,  intellectual  and  physical 

development of young adults, youths and children. 

21 

Article 47 

Citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  enjoy  the  freedom 
to  engage  in  scientific  research,  literary  and  artistic  creation,  and  other 
cultural  pursuits.  The  state  shall  encourage  and  assist  creative  work 
that is beneficial to the people of citizens engaged in education, science, 
technology, literature, art and other cultural activities. 

Article 48 

Women  in  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  enjoy  equal  rights 
with  men  in  all  spheres  of  life:  political,  economic,  cultural,  social  and 
familial. 

The state shall protect the rights and interests of women, implement a 
system of equal pay for equal work, and train and select female officials. 

Article 49 

Marriage,  families,  mothers  and  children  shall  be  protected  by  the 

state. 

Both  husband  and  wife  shall  have  the  obligation  to  practice  family 

planning. 

Parents  shall  have  the  obligation  to  raise  and  educate  their  minor 
children;  adult  children  shall  have  the  obligation  to  support  and  assist 
their parents. 

Infringement of the freedom of marriage is prohibited; mistreatment 

of senior citizens, women and children is prohibited. 

Article 50 

The People’s Republic of China shall protect the legitimate rights and 
interests  of  Chinese  nationals  overseas  as  well  as  the  lawful  rights  and 
interests  of  Chinese  nationals  who  have  returned  from  overseas  and  of 
the family members in China of Chinese nationals overseas. 

22 

 
 
Article 51 

When  exercising  their  freedoms  and  rights,  citizens  of  the  People’s 
Republic of China shall not undermine the interests of the state, society 
or  collectives,  or  infringe  upon  the  lawful  freedoms  and  rights  of  other 
citizens. 

Article 52 

Citizens of the People’s Republic of China shall have the obligation 
to safeguard national unity and the solidarity of all the country’s ethnic 
groups. 

Article 53 

Citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  must  abide  by  the 
Constitution  and  the  law,  keep  state  secrets,  protect  public  property, 
observe  discipline  in  the  workplace,  observe  public  order,  and  respect 
social morality. 

Article 54 

Citizens of the People’s Republic of China shall have the obligation 
to  safeguard  the  security,  honor  and  interests  of  the  motherland;  they 
must  not  behave  in  any  way  that  endangers  the  motherland’s  security, 
honor or interests. 

Article 55 

It is the sacred duty of every citizen of the People’s Republic of China 

to defend the motherland and resist aggression. 

It  is  an  honorable  obligation  of  citizens  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China  to  perform  military  service  or  join  the  militia  in  accordance  with 
law. 

Article 56 

Citizens of the People’s Republic of China shall have the obligation 

to pay taxes in accordance with law. 

23 

Chapter III  State Institutions 

Section 1  The National People’s Congress 

Article 57 

The  National  People’s  Congress  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
is the highest state organ of power. Its permanent organ is the National 
People’s Congress Standing Committee. 

Article 58 

The National People’s Congress and the National People’s Congress 

Standing Committee exercise the legislative power of the state. 

Article 59 

The  National  People’s  Congress  shall  be  composed  of  deputies 
elected  from  the  provinces,  autonomous  regions,  cities  directly  under 
central government jurisdiction, special administrative regions and armed 
forces.  All  ethnic  minorities  should  have  an  appropriate  number  of 
deputies. 

The  election  of  deputies  to  the  National  People’s  Congress  shall  be 

presided over by the National People’s Congress Standing Committee. 

The  number  of  deputies  to  the  National  People’s  Congress  and  the 

procedures for their election shall be prescribed by law. 

Article 60 

Each National People’s Congress shall have a term of five years. 

The National People’s Congress Standing Committee must complete 
the  election  of  deputies  to  the  next  National  People’s  Congress  two 
months  prior  to  the  completion  of  the  term  of  office  of  the  current 
National  People’s  Congress.  If  extraordinary  circumstances  prevent  an 
election from going ahead, the election may be postponed and the term 
of  office  of  the  current  National  People’s  Congress  may  be  extended 

24 

 
 
by  a  resolution  supported  by  at  least  two-thirds  of  the  members  of  the 
current  National  People’s  Congress  Standing  Committee.  The  election 
of  deputies  to  the  next  National  People’s  Congress  must  be  completed 
within one year of said extraordinary circumstances coming to an end. 

Article 61 

A session of the National People’s Congress shall be held once every 
year and shall be convened by the National People’s Congress Standing 
Committee.  If  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing  Committee 
deems  it  necessary,  or  one-fifth  or  more  of  National  People’s  Congress 
deputies so propose, a session of the National People’s Congress may be 
convened in the interim. 

When the National People’s Congress holds a session, it shall elect a 

presidium to conduct that session. 

Article 62 

The National People’s Congress shall exercise the following functions 

and powers: 

(1)  amending the Constitution; 

(2)  overseeing the enforcement of the Constitution; 

(3)  enacting  and  amending  criminal,  civil,  state  institutional  and 

other basic laws; 

(4)  electing  the  president  and  the  vice  president  of  the  People’s 

Republic of China; 

(5)  deciding, based on nomination by the president of the People’s 
Republic of China, on the successful candidate for the premier 
of  the  State  Council;  deciding,  based  on  nominations  by  the 
premier  of  the  State  Council,  on  the  successful  candidates  for 
vice premiers, state councilors, ministers of ministries, ministers 
of commissions, the auditor general and the secretary general of 
the State Council; 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
(6)  electing  the  chairperson  of  the  Central  Military  Commission 
and  deciding,  based  on  nominations  by  the  chairperson  of  the 
Central  Military  Commission,  on  the  successful  candidates  for 
other members of the Central Military Commission; 

(7)  electing  the  chairperson  of  the  National  Commission  of 

Supervision; 

(8)  electing the president of the Supreme People’s Court; 

(9)  electing  the  procurator  general  of  the  Supreme  People’s 

Procuratorate; 

(10)  reviewing  and  approving  the  plan  for  national  economic  and 
social development and the report on its implementation; 

(11)  reviewing and approving the state budget and the report on its 

implementation; 

(12)  changing  or  revoking  inappropriate  decisions  of  the  National 

People’s Congress Standing Committee; 

(13)  approving the establishment of provinces, autonomous regions 
and cities directly under central government jurisdiction; 

(14)  deciding on the establishment of special administrative regions 

and the systems to be instituted there; 

(15)  deciding on issues concerning war and peace; and 

(16)  other  functions  and  powers  that  the  highest  state  organ  of 

power should exercise. 

Article 63 

The National People’s Congress shall have the power to remove from 

office the following personnel: 

(1) 

the president and the vice president of the People’s Republic of 
China; 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2) 

the  premier,  vice  premiers,  state  councilors,  ministers  of 
ministries,  ministers  of  commissions,  the  auditor  general  and 
the secretary general of the State Council; 

(3) 

the chairperson of the Central Military Commission and other 
members of the Central Military Commission; 

(4) 

the chairperson of the National Commission of Supervision; 

(5) 

the president of the Supreme People’s Court; and 

(6) 

the procurator general of the Supreme People’s Procuratorate. 

Article 64 

Amendments to the Constitution must be proposed by the National 
People’s  Congress  Standing  Committee  or  by  one-fifth  or  more  of 
National People’s Congress deputies and be adopted by a vote of at least 
two-thirds of National People’s Congress deputies. 

Laws and other proposals shall be adopted by a majority vote of the 

National People’s Congress deputies. 

Article 65 

The  National  People’s  Congress  Standing  Committee  shall  be 

composed of the following personnel: 

a chairperson, 
vice chairpersons, 
a secretary general, and 
members. 

There should be an appropriate number of ethnic minority deputies 
who  sit  as  members  on  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing 
Committee. 

The  National  People’s  Congress  shall  elect,  and  have  the  power  to 
remove  from  office,  the  members  of  the  National  People’s  Congress 
Standing Committee. 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
Members  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing  Committee 
shall  not  hold  office  in  an  administrative,  supervisory,  adjudicatory  or 
procuratorial organ of the state. 

Article 66 

Each  National  People’s  Congress  Standing  Committee  shall  have 
the same term of office as that of the National People’s Congress; it shall 
exercise  its  functions  and  powers  until  a  new  Standing  Committee  is 
elected by the next National People’s Congress. 

The  chairperson  and  vice  chairpersons  of  the  Standing  Committee 

shall serve no more than two consecutive terms. 

Article 67 

The  National  People’s  Congress  Standing  Committee  shall  exercise 

the following functions and powers: 

(1) 

interpreting the Constitution and overseeing its enforcement; 

(2)  enacting  and  amending  laws  other  than  those  that  should  be 

enacted by the National People’s Congress; 

(3)  when the National People’s Congress is out of session, partially 
supplementing  and  amending  laws  enacted  by  the  National 
People’s  Congress  but  without  conflicting  with  the  basic 
principles of those laws; 

(4) 

interpreting laws; 

(5)  when the National People’s Congress is out of session, reviewing 
and  approving  partial  adjustments  to  the  plan  for  national 
economic  and  social  development  and  the  state  budget  that 
must be made in the course of implementation; 

(6)  overseeing  the  work  of  the  State  Council,  the  Central  Military 
Commission, 
the  National  Commission  of  Supervision, 
the  Supreme  People’s  Court  and  the  Supreme  People’s 
Procuratorate; 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(7) 

(8) 

revoking  administrative  regulations,  decisions  and  orders 
formulated  by  the  State  Council  that  are  in  conflict  with  the 
Constitution or laws; 

revoking  local  regulations  and  resolutions  formulated  by 
the  state  organs  of  power  in  provinces,  autonomous  regions 
and  cities  directly  under  central  government  jurisdiction  that 
are  in  conflict  with  the  Constitution,  laws,  or  administrative 
regulations; 

(9)  when the National People’s Congress is out of session, deciding, 
based  on  nominations  by  the  premier  of  the  State  Council,  on 
successful  candidates  for  ministers  of  ministries,  ministers  of 
commissions,  the  auditor  general  and  the  secretary  general  of 
the State Council; 

(10)  when the National People’s Congress is out of session, deciding, 
based on nominations by the chairperson of the Central Military 
Commission, on successful candidates for other members of the 
Central Military Commission; 

(11)  appointing  or  removing,  based  on  recommendations  by  the 
chairperson  of  the  National  Commission  of  Supervision,  vice 
chairpersons  and  members  of  the  National  Commission  of 
Supervision; 

(12)  appointing  or  removing,  based  on  recommendations  by  the 
president of the Supreme People’s Court, vice presidents, judges 
and Adjudicatory Committee members of the Supreme People’s 
Court, and the president of the Military Court; 

(13)  appointing  or  removing,  based  on  recommendations  by  the 
procurator  general  of  the  Supreme  People’s  Procuratorate, 
deputy  procurators  general,  procurators  and  Procuratorial 
Committee  members  of  the  Supreme  People’s  Procuratorate, 
and  the  chief  procurator  of  the  Military  Procuratorate;  and 
approving  the  appointment  or  removal  of  chief  procurators  of 
the  people’s  procuratorates  of  provinces,  autonomous  regions 
and cities directly under central government jurisdiction; 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(14)  deciding  on  the  appointment  or  removal  of  plenipotentiary 

representatives abroad; 

(15)  deciding  on  the  ratification  or  abrogation  of  treaties  and 

important agreements concluded with foreign countries; 

(16)  stipulating  systems  of  titles  and  ranks  for  military  and 
diplomatic  personnel  and  other  field-specific  title  and  ranking 
systems; 

(17)  stipulating national medals and titles of honor and deciding on 

their conferment; 

(18)  deciding on the granting of special pardons; 

(19)  when  the  National  People’s  Congress  is  out  of  session,  in  the 
event  of  an  armed  attack  on  the  country  or  in  fulfillment  of 
international  treaty  obligations  concerning  common  defense 
against aggression, deciding on declaring a state of war; 

(20)  deciding on national or local mobilization; 

(21)  deciding  on  entering  a  state  of  emergency  nationwide  or  in 
particular  provinces,  autonomous  regions  or  cities  directly 
under central government jurisdiction; and 

(22)  other  functions  and  powers  accorded  to  it  by  the  National 

People’s Congress. 

Article 68 

The  chairperson  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing 
Committee shall preside over the work of the National People’s Congress 
Standing  Committee  and  convene  meetings  of  the  National  People’s 
Congress  Standing  Committee.  The  vice  chairpersons  and  the  secretary 
general shall assist the chairperson in his or her work. 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  chairperson,  vice  chairpersons  and  the  secretary  general 
constitute a Council of Chairpersons, which handles the important day-
to-day work of the National People’s Congress Standing Committee. 

Article 69 

The  National  People’s  Congress  Standing  Committee  shall  be 
responsible  to  the  National  People’s  Congress  and  shall  report  to  the 
Congress on its work. 

Article 70 

The  National  People’s  Congress  shall  establish  an  Ethnic  Affairs 
Committee,  a  Constitution  and  Law  Committee,  a  Financial  and 
Economic Committee, an Education, Science, Culture and Public Health 
Committee,  a  Foreign  Affairs  Committee,  an  Overseas  Chinese  Affairs 
Committee and such other special committees as are necessary. When the 
National People’s Congress is out of session, all special committees shall 
work  under  the  leadership  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing 
Committee. 

The special committees shall research, discuss and draw up relevant 
proposals under the leadership of the National People’s Congress and the 
National People’s Congress Standing Committee. 

Article 71 

When  the  National  People’s  Congress  and  the  National  People’s 
Congress  Standing  Committee  deem  it  necessary,  they  may  organize 
investigation  committees  on  specific  issues  and,  based  on  investigation 
committee reports, adopt appropriate resolutions. 

When an investigation committee is conducting an investigation, all 
state  organs,  social  organizations  and  citizens  concerned  shall  have  the 
obligation to provide the committee with the necessary data. 

Article 72 

Deputies  to  the  National  People’s  Congress  and  members  of  the 
National  People’s  Congress  Standing  Committee  shall  have  the  power, 
in  accordance  with  procedures  prescribed  by  law,  to  submit  proposals 

31 

within the scope of the respective functions and powers of the National 
People’s  Congress  and  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing 
Committee. 

Article 73 

Deputies  to  the  National  People’s  Congress,  when  the  Congress  is 
in  session,  and  members  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing 
Committee,  when  the  Standing  Committee  is  meeting,  shall  have  the 
power,  in  accordance  with  procedures  prescribed  by  law,  to  submit 
inquiries to the State Council or the ministries and commissions under it. 
Organs that receive such inquiries must take responsibility for answering 
them. 

Article 74 

Deputies  to  the  National  People’s  Congress  shall  not  be  arrested 
or  placed  on  criminal  trial  without  the  consent  of  the  presidium  of  the 
current session of the National People’s Congress or, when the Congress 
is out of session, the consent of the National People’s Congress Standing 
Committee. 

Article 75 

The statements and votes of National People’s Congress deputies at 
meetings of the National People’s Congress shall not be subject to legal 
liability. 

Article 76 

Deputies to the National People’s Congress must play an exemplary 
role in abiding by the Constitution and the law and keeping state secrets 
and,  in  the  production,  work  and  public  activities  they  participate  in, 
assist in the enforcement of the Constitution and the law. 

Deputies  to  the  National  People’s  Congress  should  maintain  close 
contact with the organizations and people that elected them, listen to and 
convey the opinions and demands of the people, and work hard to serve 
them. 

32 

Article 77 

Deputies  to  the  National  People’s  Congress  shall  be  subject  to  the 
oversight  of  the  organizations  that  elected  them.  Organizations  that 
have elected deputies shall have the power to remove them from office in 
accordance with procedures prescribed by law. 

Article 78 

The  organization  and  working  procedures  of  the  National  People’s 
Congress and the National People’s Congress Standing Committee shall 
be prescribed by law. 

Section 2  The President of the People’s Republic of China 

Article 79 

The  president  and  the  vice  president  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 

China shall be elected by the National People’s Congress. 

Citizens of the People’s Republic of China who have the right to vote 
and stand for election and who have reached the age of 45 are eligible for 
election as president or vice president of the People’s Republic of China. 

The  president  and  the  vice  president  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China shall have the same term of office as that of the National People’s 
Congress. 

Article 80 

The  president  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  pursuant  to 
decisions  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  and  the  National  People’s 
Congress  Standing  Committee,  promulgates  laws,  appoints  or  removes 
the  premier,  vice  premiers,  state  councilors,  ministers  of  ministries, 
ministers  of  commissions,  the  auditor  general  and  the  secretary  general 
of the State Council, confers national medals and titles of honor, issues 
orders of special pardon, declares a state of emergency, declares a state of 
war, and issues mobilization orders. 

33 

 
Article 81 

The  president  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  engages  in  affairs 
of state and receives foreign diplomatic envoys on behalf of the People’s 
Republic  of  China  and,  pursuant  to  decisions  of  the  National  People’s 
Congress  Standing  Committee,  appoints  or  recalls  plenipotentiary 
representatives  abroad  and  ratifies  or  abrogates  treaties  and  important 
agreements concluded with foreign countries. 

Article 82 

The vice president of the People’s Republic of China shall assist the 

president in his or her work. 

The  vice  president  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  may,  when  so 
entrusted  by  the  president,  exercise  part  of  the  functions  and  powers  of 
the president on his or her behalf. 

Article 83 

The  president  and  the  vice  president  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China  shall  exercise  their  functions  and  powers  until  the  president  and 
the vice president elected by the next National People’s Congress assume 
office. 

Article 84 

In  the  event  that  the  office  of  president  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China  becomes  vacant  the  vice  president  shall  succeed  to  the  office  of 
president. 

In the event that the office of vice president of the People’s Republic 
of  China  becomes  vacant  the  National  People’s  Congress  shall  elect  a 
new vice president to fill the vacancy. 

In  the  event  that  the  offices  of  both  president  and  vice  president  of 
the  People’s  Republic  of  China  become  vacant  the  National  People’s 
Congress  shall  elect  a  new  president  and  a  new  vice  president;  prior 
to  their  election,  the  chairperson  of  the  National  People’s  Congress 
Standing Committee shall temporarily act as the president. 

34 

Section 3  The State Council 

Article 85 

The  State  Council  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  namely,  the 
Central People’s Government, is the executive organ of the highest state 
organ of power; it is the highest state administrative organ. 

Article 86 

The State Council is composed of the following personnel: 

a premier, 
vice premiers, 
state councilors, 
ministers of ministries, 
ministers of commissions, 
an auditor general, and 
a secretary general. 

The State Council shall practice a premier responsibility system. The 
ministries  and  commissions  shall  each  practice  a  minister  responsibility 
system. 

The organization of the State Council shall be prescribed by law. 

Article 87 

The  State  Council  shall  have  the  same  term  of  office  as  that  of  the 

National People’s Congress. 

The  premier,  vice  premiers  and  state  councilors  shall  serve  no  more 

than two consecutive terms. 

Article 88 

The  premier  shall  direct  the  work  of  the  State  Council.  The  vice 

premiers and state councilors shall assist the premier in his or her work. 

The premier, vice premiers, state councilors and the secretary general 

shall attend State Council executive meetings. 

35 

 
The  premier  shall  convene  and  preside  over  State  Council  executive 

meetings and State Council plenary meetings. 

Article 89 

The State Council shall exercise the following functions and powers: 

(1) 

stipulating administrative measures, formulating administrative 
regulations and issuing decisions and orders in accordance with 
the Constitution and the law; 

(2) 

submitting  proposals  to  the  National  People’s  Congress  or  the 
National People’s Congress Standing Committee; 

(3) 

stipulating the missions and responsibilities of the ministries and 
commissions, exercising unified leadership over their work, and 
directing national administrative work that does not fall within 
the responsibilities of the ministries and commissions; 

(4)  exercising  unified  leadership  over  the  work  of  local  state 
administrative  organs  at  all  levels  nationwide  and  stipulating 
the  detailed  division  of  functions  and  powers  between  the 
Central  Government  and  state  administrative  organs 
in 
provinces, autonomous regions and cities directly under central 
government jurisdiction; 

(5)  drawing up and implementing plans for national economic and 

social development and state budgets; 

(6)  directing  and  managing  economic  work,  urban  and  rural 

development and ecological conservation; 

(7)  directing  and  managing  education,  science,  culture,  health, 

sports and family planning work; 

(8)  directing  and  managing  work  such  as  civil  affairs,  public 

security and judicial administration; 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(9)  managing 

foreign  affairs  and  concluding 

treaties  and 

agreements with foreign countries; 

(10)  directing and managing the development of national defense; 

(11)  directing and managing ethnic affairs and protecting the equal 
rights of ethnic minorities and the power to self-govern of ethnic 
autonomous areas; 

(12)  protecting  the 

legitimate  rights  and 

interests  of  Chinese 
nationals overseas and protecting the lawful rights and interests 
of returned overseas Chinese nationals and the family members 
in China of Chinese nationals overseas; 

(13)  changing  or  revoking  inappropriate  orders,  directives  and 

regulations issued by ministries or commissions; 

(14)  changing or revoking inappropriate decisions and orders issued 

by local state administrative organs at all levels; 

(15)  approving  the  geographic  division  of  provinces,  autonomous 
regions and cities directly under central government jurisdiction 
and  approving  the  establishment  and  geographic  division  of 
autonomous  prefectures,  counties,  autonomous  counties  and 
cities; 

(16)  deciding, in accordance with the provisions of law, on entering 
a state of emergency in parts of provinces, autonomous regions 
and cities directly under central government jurisdiction; 

(17)  reviewing and deciding on the staff size of administrative organs 
and,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  law,  appointing  or 
removing,  training,  evaluating,  and  awarding  or  punishing 
administrative personnel; and 

(18)  other  functions  and  powers  accorded  to  it  by  the  National 
People’s Congress and the National People’s Congress Standing 
Committee. 

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 90 

State  Council  ministers  of  ministries  and  ministers  of  commissions 
shall  be  responsible  for  the  work  of  their  departments,  and  shall 
convene  and  preside  over  ministerial  meetings  or  general  and  executive 
commission  meetings  to  discuss  and  decide  on  major  issues  in  their 
departments’ work. 

Ministries  and  commissions  shall,  in  accordance  with  the  law  and 
the administrative regulations, decisions and orders of the State Council, 
issue  orders  and  directives  and  promulgate  regulations  within  the  scope 
of their authority. 

Article 91 

The State Council shall establish an audit office to conduct auditing 
oversight  over  the  revenue  and  expenditure  of  all  State  Council 
departments  and  local  governments  at  all  levels,  and  over  the  revenue 
and expenditure of all state financial institutions, enterprises and public 
institutions. 

The audit office shall, under the leadership of the premier of the State 
Council, independently exercise the power to conduct auditing oversight 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  law,  and  shall  not  be  subject  to 
interference  from  other  administrative  organs,  social  organizations  or 
individuals. 

Article 92 

The  State  Council  shall  be  responsible  to  the  National  People’s 
Congress and shall report to the Congress on its work; when the National 
People’s Congress is out of session it shall be responsible to the National 
People’s Congress Standing Committee and shall report to the Standing 
Committee on its work. 

38 

 
Section 4  The Central Military Commission 

Article 93 

The Central Military Commission of the People’s Republic of China 

shall lead the country’s armed forces. 

The  Central  Military  Commission  is  composed  of  the  following 

personnel: 

a chairperson, 
vice chairpersons, and 
members. 

The  Central  Military  Commission  shall  practice  a  chairperson 

responsibility system. 

The Central Military Commission shall have the same term of office 

as that of the National People’s Congress. 

Article 94 

The  chairperson  of  the  Central  Military  Commission  shall  be 
responsible to the National People’s Congress and the National People’s 
Congress Standing Committee. 

Section 5  Local People’s Congresses at All Levels and 

Local People’s Governments at All Levels 

Article 95 

Provinces,  cities  directly  under  central  government  jurisdiction, 
counties,  cities,  municipal  districts,  townships,  ethnic  townships  and 
towns shall establish people’s congresses and people’s governments. 

The  organization  of  local  people’s  congresses  at  all  levels  and  local 

people’s governments at all levels shall be prescribed by law. 

39 

 
 
 
 
 
Autonomous  regions,  autonomous  prefectures  and  autonomous 
counties shall establish autonomous organs. The organization and work 
of  autonomous  organs  shall  be  prescribed  by  law  in  accordance  with 
the  basic  principles  laid  down  in  Chapter  III  sections  5  and  6  of  the 
Constitution. 

Article 96 

Local people’s congresses at all levels are local state organs of power. 

Local people’s congresses at and above the county level shall establish 

standing committees. 

Article 97 

Deputies to the people’s congresses of provinces, cities directly under 
central  government  jurisdiction  and  cities  divided  into  districts  shall  be 
elected by the people’s congresses at the next level down; deputies to the 
people’s congresses of counties, cities not divided into districts, municipal 
districts, townships, ethnic townships and towns shall be directly elected 
by their constituencies. 

The number of deputies to local people’s congresses at all levels and 

the procedures of their election shall be prescribed by law. 

Article 98 

Local people’s congresses at all levels shall have a term of five years. 

Article 99 

Local  people’s  congresses  at  all 

their 
administrative  areas,  ensure  the  observance  and  enforcement  of  the 
Constitution,  laws  and  administrative  regulations;  they  shall,  according 
to  the  authority  invested  in  them  as  prescribed  by  law,  adopt  and  issue 
resolutions, and review and decide on local economic, cultural and public 
service development plans. 

levels  shall,  within 

Local people’s congresses at and above the county level shall review 
and approve the economic and social development plans and budgets of 
their administrative areas as well as reports on their implementation; they 

40 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shall  have  the  power  to  change  or  revoke  inappropriate  decisions  made 
by their own standing committees. 

The  people’s  congresses  of  ethnic  townships  may,  according  to  the 
authority  invested  in  them  as  prescribed  by  law,  take  specific  measures 
suited to ethnic characteristics. 

Article 100 

The  people’s  congresses  of  provinces  and  cities  directly  under 
central  government  jurisdiction  and  their  standing  committees  may, 
provided there is no conflict with the Constitution, laws or administrative 
regulations,  formulate  local  regulations,  which  shall  be  reported  to  the 
National People’s Congress Standing Committee to be placed on record. 

The  people’s  congresses  of  cities  divided  into  districts  and  their 
standing  committees  may,  provided  there  is  no  conflict  with  the 
Constitution,  laws  or  administrative  regulations,  or  with  the  local 
regulations  of  their  province  or  autonomous  region,  formulate  local 
regulations in accordance with the provisions of law, which shall go into 
force after submission to the standing committee of the people’s congress 
of their province or autonomous region and the receipt of approval. 

Article 101 

Local  people’s  congresses  shall,  at  their  respective  levels,  elect  and 
have the power to remove from office governors and deputy governors, 
mayors  and  deputy  mayors,  county  heads  and  deputy  heads,  municipal 
district heads and deputy heads, township heads and deputy heads, and 
town heads and deputy heads. 

Local  people’s  congresses  at  and  above  the  county  level  shall 
elect,  and  have  the  power  to  remove  from  office,  chairpersons  of  the 
commissions  of  supervision,  presidents  of  the  people’s  courts  and  chief 
procurators of the people’s procuratorates at their respective levels. The 
election  or  removal  of  chief  procurator  of  the  people’s  procuratorate 
must be reported to the chief procurator of the people’s procuratorate at 
the next level up for submission to the standing committee of the people’s 
congress at that level for approval. 

41 

Article 102 

Deputies to the people’s congresses of provinces, cities directly under 
central  government  jurisdiction  and  cities  divided  into  districts  shall  be 
subject  to  oversight  by  the  organizations  that  elected  them;  deputies 
to  the  people’s  congresses  of  counties,  cities  not  divided  into  districts, 
municipal  districts,  townships,  ethnic  townships  and  towns  shall  be 
subject to oversight by their constituencies. 

The  organizations  and  constituencies  that  elect  deputies  to  local 
people’s  congresses  at  all  levels  shall  have  the  power  to  remove  them 
from office in accordance with procedures prescribed by law. 

Article 103 

The  standing  committees  of  local  people’s  congresses  at  and  above 
the  county  level  shall  be  composed  of  a  chairperson,  vice  chairpersons 
and members; they shall be responsible to the people’s congresses at their 
respective levels and shall report to them on their work. 

Local  people’s  congresses  at  and  above  the  county  level  shall  elect, 
and  have  the  power  to  remove  from  office,  members  of  their  standing 
committees. 

Members  of  the  standing  committee  of  a  local  people’s  congress 
at  or  above  the  county  level  shall  not  hold  office  in  an  administrative, 
supervisory, adjudicatory or procuratorial organ of the state. 

Article 104 

The  standing  committees  of  local  people’s  congresses  at  and  above 
the  county  level  shall  discuss  and  decide  on  major  issues  in  all  areas 
of  work  in  their  administrative  areas;  oversee  the  work  of  the  people’s 
government,  the  commission  of  supervision,  the  people’s  court  and  the 
people’s  procuratorate  at  their  respective  levels;  revoke  inappropriate 
decisions and orders made by the people’s government at the same level; 
revoke inappropriate resolutions adopted by the people’s congress at the 
next level down; decide on the appointment or removal of employees of 
state  organs  according  to  the  authority  invested  in  them  as  prescribed 
by  law;  and,  when  people’s  congresses  at  their  level  are  out  of  session, 

42 

remove  from  office  and  elect  to  fill  vacancies  individual  deputies  to  the 
people’s congress at the next level up. 

Article 105 

Local  people’s  governments  at  all  levels  are  the  executive  organs  of 
the local state organs of power at their respective levels; they are the local 
state administrative organs at their respective levels. 

Local  people’s  governments  at  all  levels  shall  practice  a  governor, 
mayor,  county  head,  municipal  district  head,  township  head  or  town 
head responsibility system. 

Article 106 

Local people’s governments at all levels shall have the same term of 

office as that of the people’s congresses at their respective levels. 

Article 107 

Local  people’s  governments  at  and  above  the  county  level  shall, 
according to the authority invested in them as prescribed by law, manage 
administrative work related to the economy, education, science, culture, 
public  health,  sports,  urban  and  rural  development,  finance,  civil 
affairs,  public  security,  ethnic  affairs,  judicial  administration,  family 
planning, etc., within their administrative areas; and shall issue decisions 
and  orders,  appoint  or  remove,  train,  evaluate,  and  award  or  punish 
administrative employees. 

The people’s governments of townships, ethnic townships and towns 
shall  implement  the  resolutions  of  the  people’s  congresses  at  their  level 
and  the  decisions  and  orders  of  state  administrative  organs  at  the  next 
level  up;  they  shall  manage  the  administrative  work  of  their  respective 
administrative areas. 

The  people’s  governments  of  provinces  and  cities  directly  under 
central  government  jurisdiction  shall  decide  on  the  establishment  of 
townships, ethnic townships and towns and their geographic division. 

43 

Article 108 

Local  people’s  governments  at  and  above  the  county  level  shall 
direct  the  work  of  their  subordinate  departments  and  of  the  people’s 
governments at the next level down and shall have the power to change 
or revoke inappropriate decisions made by their subordinate departments 
and the people’s governments at the next level down. 

Article 109 

Local  people’s  governments  at  and  above  the  county  level  shall 
establish audit offices. Local audit offices at all levels shall, in accordance 
with the provisions of law, independently exercise the power to conduct 
auditing oversight; they shall be responsible  to  the people’s government 
at their level and to the audit office at the next level up. 

Article 110 

Local  people’s  governments  at  all  levels  shall  be  responsible  to  the 
people’s congresses at their levels and shall report to them on their work. 
Local  people’s  governments  at  and  above  the  county  level  shall,  when 
the people’s congresses at their level are out of session, be responsible to 
the standing committees of the people’s congresses at their level and shall 
report to them on their work. 

Local people’s governments at all levels shall be responsible to state 
administrative  organs  at  the  next  level  up  and  shall  report  to  them  on 
their work. Local people’s governments at all levels nationwide are state 
administrative organs under the unified leadership of the State Council; 
they shall all be subordinate to the State Council. 

Article 111 

Residents  committees  and  villagers  committees,  established  among 
urban  and  rural  residents  on  the  basis  of  their  place  of  residence,  are 
primary-level  people’s  organizations  for  self-governance.  Residents 
committee  and  villagers  committee  chairpersons,  vice  chairpersons  and 
members  shall  be  elected  by  residents.  The  relations  between  residents 
committees and villagers committees and primary-level state bodies shall 
be prescribed by law. 

44 

Residents committees and villagers committees shall establish people’s 
mediation,  public  security,  public  health  and  other  subcommittees  to 
handle public affairs and public services in the residential areas to which 
they belong, mediate civil disputes and help maintain public order; they 
shall convey residents’ opinions and demands and make proposals to the 
people’s government. 

Section 6  Autonomous Organs of Ethnic Autonomous Areas 

Article 112 

The autonomous organs of ethnic autonomous areas are the people’s 
congresses  and  the  people’s  governments  of  autonomous  regions, 
autonomous prefectures and autonomous counties. 

Article 113 

In  the  people’s  congresses  of  autonomous  regions,  autonomous 
prefectures  and  autonomous  counties,  aside  from  deputies  of  the  ethnic 
group  that  exercises  regional  autonomy,  other  ethnic  groups  resident 
in  that  administrative  area  should  also  have  an  appropriate  number  of 
deputies. 

On  the  standing  committees  of  people’s  congresses  of  autonomous 
regions, autonomous prefectures and autonomous counties, there should 
be citizens of the ethnic group that exercises regional autonomy in office 
as chairperson or vice chairperson. 

Article 114 

The  offices  of  governor  of  an  autonomous  region,  prefect  of  an 
autonomous  prefecture  and  head  of  an  autonomous  county  shall  be 
filled  by  a  citizen  belonging  to  the  ethnic  group  that  exercises  regional 
autonomy there. 

Article 115 

The  autonomous  organs  of  autonomous  regions,  autonomous 
prefectures  and  autonomous  counties  shall  exercise  the  functions  and 

45 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
powers of local state organs as specified in Chapter III Section 5 of the 
Constitution;  at  the  same  time,  they  shall  exercise  the  power  to  self-
govern according to the authority invested in them as prescribed by the 
Constitution and the Law on Regional Ethnic Autonomy and other laws, 
and, based on local circumstances, shall implement the laws and policies 
of the state. 

Article 116 

The  people’s  congresses  of  ethnic  autonomous  areas  shall  have 
the  power  to  formulate  autonomous  regulations  and  local-specific 
regulations  in  accordance  with  the  political,  economic  and  cultural 
characteristics  of  the  ethnic  groups  in  their  areas.  The  autonomous 
regulations and local-specific regulations of autonomous regions shall go 
into  effect  after  submission  to  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing 
Committee  and  receipt  of  approval.  The  autonomous  regulations  and 
local-specific  regulations  of  autonomous  prefectures  and  autonomous 
counties shall go into effect after submission to the standing committees 
of  the  people’s  congresses  of  their  provinces  or  autonomous  regions 
and  receipt  of  approval,  and  shall  be  reported  to  the  National  People’s 
Congress Standing Committee to be placed on record. 

Article 117 

Autonomous  organs  of  ethnic  autonomous  areas  shall  have  the 
autonomy  to  manage  their  local  finances.  All  fiscal  revenue  which, 
according to the state financial system, belongs to an ethnic autonomous 
area  should  be  autonomously  allocated  and  used  by  the  autonomous 
organs of that ethnic autonomous area. 

Article 118 

Autonomous  organs  of  ethnic  autonomous  areas  shall,  under 
the  guidance  of  state  plans,  autonomously  plan  for  and  manage  local 
economic development. 

When  the  state  is  exploiting  resources  or  establishing  enterprises  in 
an ethnic autonomous area, it should be attentive to the interests of that 
area. 

46 

Article 119 

Autonomous organs of ethnic autonomous areas shall autonomously 
manage 
the  educational,  scientific,  cultural,  health  and  sports 
undertakings  of  their  areas,  protect  and  restore  the  cultural  heritage 
of  their  ethnic  groups,  and  promote  the  development  and  a  thriving  of 
ethnic cultures. 

Article 120 

Autonomous organs of ethnic autonomous areas may, in accordance 
with  the  military  system  of  the  state  and  local  needs,  and  with  the 
approval  of  the  State  Council,  organize  local  public  security  units  to 
maintain public order. 

Article 121 

In performing their duties, autonomous organs of ethnic autonomous 
areas shall, in accordance with the autonomous regulations of that ethnic 
autonomous  area,  use  the  spoken  and  written  language  or  languages 
commonly used in that area. 

Article 122 

The state shall provide financial, material and technical assistance to 

ethnic minorities to accelerate their economic and cultural development. 

The state shall assist ethnic autonomous areas in training on a large 
scale  officials  at  all  levels,  different  types  of  specialized  personnel  and 
technical workers from among that area’s ethnic groups. 

Section 7  Commissions of Supervision 

Article 123 

Commissions of supervision of the People’s Republic of China at all 

levels are the supervisory organs of the state. 

47 

 
 
Article 124 

The  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  establish  a  National 
Commission  of  Supervision  and  local  commissions  of  supervision  at  all 
levels. 

A  commission  of  supervision  shall  be  composed  of  the  following 

personnel: 

a chairperson, 
vice chairpersons, and 
members. 

The chairperson of a commission of supervision shall have the same 
term  of  office  as  that  of  the  people’s  congress  at  the  same  level.  The 
chairperson  of  the  National  Commission  of  Supervision  shall  serve  no 
more than two consecutive terms. 

The  organization,  functions  and  powers  of  the  commissions  of 

supervision shall be prescribed by law. 

Article 125 

The National Commission of Supervision of the People’s Republic of 

China is the highest supervisory organ. 

The  National  Commission  of  Supervision  shall  direct  the  work  of 
local commissions of supervision at all levels; commissions of supervision 
at higher levels shall direct the work of those at lower levels. 

Article 126 

The  National  Commission  of  Supervision  shall  be  responsible  to 
the  National  People’s  Congress  and  the  National  People’s  Congress 
Standing Committee. Local commissions of supervision at all levels shall 
be responsible to the state organs of power that created them and to the 
commissions of supervision at the next level up. 

Article 127 

Commissions of supervision shall, in accordance with the provisions 
of law, independently exercise supervisory power, and shall not be subject 

48 

 
to  interference  from  any  administrative  organ,  social  organization  or 
individual. 

The supervisory organs, in handling cases of duty-related malfeasance 
or  crime,  shall  work  together  with  adjudicatory  organs,  procuratorial 
organs  and  law  enforcement  departments;  they  shall  act  as  a  mutual 
check on each other. 

Section 8  People’s Courts and People’s Procuratorates 

Article 128 

The  people’s  courts  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  are  the 

adjudicatory organs of the state. 

Article 129 

The  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  establish  a  Supreme  People’s 
Court  and  local  people’s  courts  at  all  levels,  military  courts  and  other 
special people’s courts. 

The  president  of  the  Supreme  People’s  Court  shall  have  the  same 
term of office as that of the National People’s Congress and shall serve 
no more than two consecutive terms. 

The organization of the people’s courts shall be prescribed by law. 

Article 130 

Except in special circumstances as prescribed by law, all cases in the 
people’s courts shall be tried in public. The accused shall have the right to 
defense. 

Article 131 

The  people’s  courts  shall,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  law, 
independently  exercise  adjudicatory  power,  and  shall  not  be  subject 
to  interference  from  any  administrative  organ,  social  organization  or 
individual. 

49 

 
 
Article 132 

The Supreme People’s Court is the highest adjudicatory organ. 

The Supreme People’s Court shall oversee the adjudicatory work of 
local people’s courts at all levels and of special people’s courts; people’s 
courts  at  higher  levels  shall  oversee  the  adjudicatory  work  of  those  at 
lower levels. 

Article 133 

The  Supreme  People’s  Court  shall  be  responsible  to  the  National 
People’s  Congress  and  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing 
Committee. Local people’s courts at all levels shall be responsible to the 
state organs of power that created them. 

Article 134 

The  people’s  procuratorates  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  are 

the legal oversight organs of the state. 

Article 135 

The  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall  establish  a  Supreme  People’s 
Procuratorate,  local  people’s  procuratorates  at  all  levels,  military 
procuratorates and other special people’s procuratorates. 

The procurator general of the Supreme People’s Procuratorate shall 
have  the  same  term  of  office  as  that  of  the  National  People’s  Congress 
and shall serve no more than two consecutive terms. 

The  organization  of  the  people’s  procuratorates  shall  be  prescribed 

by law. 

Article 136 

The people’s procuratorates shall, in accordance with the provisions 
of  law,  independently  exercise  procuratorial  power,  and  shall  not  be 
subject to interference from any administrative organ, social organization 
or individual. 

50 

Article 137 

The  Supreme  People’s  Procuratorate  is  the  highest  procuratorial 

organ. 

The  Supreme  People’s  Procuratorate  shall  direct  the  work  of 
local  people’s  procuratorates  at  all  levels  and  of  special  people’s 
procuratorates;  people’s  procuratorates  at  higher  levels  shall  direct  the 
work of those at lower levels. 

Article 138 

The  Supreme  People’s  Procuratorate  shall  be  responsible  to  the 
National  People’s  Congress  and  the  National  People’s  Congress 
Standing  Committee.  Local  people’s  procuratorates  at  all  levels  shall 
be responsible to the state organs of power that created them and to the 
people’s procuratorates at higher levels. 

Article 139 

Citizens  of  all  ethnic  groups  shall  have  the  right  to  use  their  own 
ethnic  group’s  spoken  and  written  languages  in  court  proceedings. 
The  people’s  courts  and  the  people’s  procuratorates  should  provide 
translation services for any party to court proceedings who does not have 
a good command of the spoken or written languages commonly used in 
the locality. 

In  areas  inhabited  by  people  of  an  ethnic  minority  or  by  a  number 
of  ethnic  groups  living  together,  court  hearings  should  be  conducted  in 
the  language  or  languages  commonly  used  in  the  locality;  indictments, 
judgments,  notices  and  other  documents  should  be  written  in  the 
language or languages commonly used in the locality according to actual 
needs. 

Article 140 

In  handling  criminal  cases,  the  people’s  courts,  the  people’s 
procuratorates and public security organs should each be responsible for 
their  respective  tasks,  work  together  with  each  other,  and  act  as  checks 
on each other to ensure the faithful and effective enforcement of the law. 

51 

Chapter IV  The National Flag, National Anthem, National Emblem and 
the Capital 

Article 141 

The national flag of the People’s Republic of China is a red flag with 

five stars. 

The national anthem of the People’s Republic of China is the March 

of the Volunteers. 

Article 142 

The  national  emblem  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  consists  of 
an image of Tiananmen Gate in the center illuminated by five stars and 
encircled by spikes of grain and a cogwheel. 

Article 143 

The capital of the People’s Republic of China is Beijing. 

52 

 
THE BASIC LAW 
OF THE HONG KONG 
SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGION 
OF THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

Decree of the President of 
the People’s Republic of China 

No. 26 

I  hereby  promulgate  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China,  including  Annex  I,  Method  for  the  Selection  of  the 
Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region,  Annex  II,  Method  for  the  Formation  of  the 
Legislative  Council  of 
the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  and  Its  Voting  Procedures,  Annex 
III,  National  Laws  to  be  Applied  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region,  and  designs  of  the  regional  flag  and 
regional  emblem  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region,  which  was  adopted  at  the  Third  Session  of  the 
Seventh  National  People’s  Congress  of 
the  People’s 
Republic of China on 4 April 1990 and shall be put into effect 
as of 1 July 1997. 

(Signed) 
Yang Shangkun 
President of 
the People’s Republic of China 

4 April 1990 

55 

 
  
 
 
THE BASIC LAW 
OF THE HONG KONG SPECIAL 
ADMINISTRATIVE REGION OF 
THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA* 

(Adopted at the Third Session of the Seventh 

National People’s Congress on 4 April 1990 
Promulgated by Order No. 26 of the President of 
the People’s Republic of China on 4 April 1990 
Effective as of 1 July 1997) 

Note: 
*  Please also see— 

a.  Decision of the National People’s Congress on the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China (Adopted at the 
Third  Session  of  the  Seventh  National  People’s  Congress  on  4  April  1990)  (see 
Instrument 7); and 

b.  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on  the 
English Text of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of 
the People’s Republic of China (Adopted on 28 June 1990) (see Instrument 12). 

56 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preamble 

Hong  Kong  has  been  part  of  the  territory  of  China  since  ancient 
times;  it  was  occupied  by  Britain  after  the  Opium  War  in  1840.  On  19 
December  1984,  the  Chinese  and  British  Governments  signed  the  Joint 
Declaration  on  the  Question  of  Hong  Kong,  affirming  that  the 
Government  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  will  resume  the  exercise 
of  sovereignty  over  Hong  Kong  with  effect  from  1  July  1997,  thus 
fulfilling the long-cherished common aspiration of the Chinese people for 
the recovery of Hong Kong. 

Upholding  national  unity  and  territorial  integrity,  maintaining  the 
prosperity and stability of Hong Kong, and taking account of its history 
and  realities,  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  has  decided  that  upon 
China’s  resumption  of  the  exercise  of  sovereignty  over  Hong  Kong,  a 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  will  be  established  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  31  of  the  Constitution  of 
the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  and  that  under  the  principle  of  “one 
country,  two  systems”,  the  socialist  system  and  policies  will  not  be 
practised  in  Hong  Kong.  The  basic  policies  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China  regarding  Hong  Kong  have  been  elaborated  by  the  Chinese 
Government in the Sino-British Joint Declaration. 

In  accordance  with  the  Constitution  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China,  the  National  People’s  Congress  hereby  enacts  the  Basic  Law  of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic 
of  China,  prescribing  the  systems  to  be  practised  in  the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region, in order to ensure the implementation of 
the  basic  policies  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  regarding  Hong 
Kong. 

57 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter I  General Principles 

Article 1 

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region is an inalienable part 

of the People’s Republic of China. 

Article 2 

The  National  People’s  Congress  authorizes  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region to exercise a high degree of autonomy and enjoy 
executive,  legislative  and  independent  judicial  power,  including  that  of 
final adjudication, in accordance with the provisions of this Law. 

Article 3 

The  executive  authorities  and  legislature  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  shall  be  composed  of  permanent  residents  of 
Hong Kong in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Law. 

Article 4 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  safeguard  the 
rights  and  freedoms  of  the  residents  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region and of other persons in the Region in accordance 
with law. 

Article 5 

The  socialist  system  and  policies  shall  not  be  practised  in  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region, and the previous capitalist system 
and way of life shall remain unchanged for 50 years. 

Article 6 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  protect  the 

right of private ownership of property in accordance with law. 

58 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 7 

The  land  and  natural  resources  within  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  shall  be  State  property.  The  Government  of 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  be  responsible  for 
their  management,  use  and  development  and  for  their  lease  or  grant  to 
individuals,  legal  persons  or  organizations  for  use  or  development.  The 
revenues  derived  therefrom  shall  be  exclusively  at  the  disposal  of  the 
government of the Region. 

Article 8 

The laws previously in force in Hong Kong, that is, the common law, 
rules  of  equity,  ordinances,  subordinate  legislation  and  customary  law 
shall be maintained, except for any that contravene this Law, and subject 
to  any  amendment  by  the  legislature  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region. 

Article 9 

In addition to the Chinese language, English may also be used as an 
official language by the executive authorities, legislature and judiciary of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

Article 10 

Apart  from  displaying  the  national  flag  and  national  emblem  of 
the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region may also use a regional flag and regional emblem. 

The  regional  flag  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 

is a red flag with a bauhinia highlighted by five star-tipped stamens. 

The  regional  emblem  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region is a bauhinia in the centre highlighted by five star-tipped stamens 
and encircled by the words “Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China”  in  Chinese  and  “HONG  KONG” 
in English. 

59 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 11 

In  accordance  with  Article  31  of  the  Constitution  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China,  the  systems  and  policies  practised  in  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region, including the social and economic 
systems,  the  system  for  safeguarding  the  fundamental  rights  and 
freedoms  of  its  residents,  the  executive,  legislative  and  judicial  systems, 
and the relevant policies, shall be based on the provisions of this Law. 

No  law  enacted  by  the  legislature  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 

Administrative Region shall contravene this Law. 

60 

 
 
 
Chapter II  Relationship  between  the  Central  Authorities  and  the  Hong 

Kong Special Administrative Region 

Article 12 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  be  a  local 
administrative  region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  which  shall 
enjoy  a  high  degree  of  autonomy  and  come  directly  under  the  Central 
People’s Government. 

Article 13 

*The  Central  People’s  Government  shall  be  responsible  for  the 
foreign affairs relating to the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

The  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 

shall establish an office in Hong Kong to deal with foreign affairs. 

The  Central  People’s  Government  authorizes  the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region to conduct relevant external affairs on its 
own in accordance with this Law. 

Article 14 

The  Central  People’s  Government  shall  be  responsible  for  the 

defence of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 

shall be responsible for the maintenance of public order in the Region. 

Military forces stationed by the Central People’s Government in the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for defence shall not interfere 
in  the  local  affairs  of  the  Region.  The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  may,  when  necessary,  ask  the  Central 
People’s  Government 
the 
maintenance of public order and in disaster relief. 

for  assistance 

the  garrison 

from 

in 

Note: 
*  See  Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress 
Regarding the First Paragraph of Article 13 and Article 19 of the Basic Law of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China (Adopted 
at the Twenty Second Meeting of the Standing Committee of the Eleventh National 
People’s Congress on 26 August 2011) (see Instrument 24) 

61 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to abiding by national laws, members of the garrison shall 

abide by the laws of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

Expenditure  for  the  garrison  shall  be  borne  by  the  Central  People’s 

Government. 

Article 15 

The Central People’s Government shall appoint the Chief Executive 
and the principal officials of the executive authorities of the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Chapter IV of this Law. 

Article 16 

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall be vested with 
executive  power.  It  shall,  on  its  own,  conduct  the  administrative  affairs 
of the Region in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Law. 

Article 17 

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall be vested with 

legislative power. 

Laws  enacted  by  the 

legislature  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  must  be  reported  to  the  Standing  Committee  of 
the National People’s Congress for the record. The reporting for record 
shall not affect the entry into force of such laws. 

If  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress,  after 
consulting  the  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  under  it,  considers  that  any  law  enacted  by  the 
legislature of the Region is not in conformity with the provisions of this 
Law regarding affairs within the responsibility of the Central Authorities 
or  regarding  the  relationship  between  the  Central  Authorities  and  the 
Region,  the  Standing  Committee  may  return  the  law  in  question  but 
shall not amend it. Any law returned by the Standing Committee of the 
National  People’s  Congress  shall  immediately  be  invalidated.  This 
invalidation  shall  not  have  retroactive  effect,  unless  otherwise  provided 
for in the laws of the Region. 

62 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 18 

The laws in force in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
shall be this Law, the laws previously in force in Hong Kong as provided 
for in Article 8 of this Law, and the laws enacted by the legislature of the 
Region. 

National  laws  shall  not  be  applied  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  except  for  those  listed  in  Annex  III  to  this  Law. 
The laws listed therein shall be applied locally by way of promulgation or 
legislation by the Region. 

The Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress may add 
to  or  delete  from  the  list  of  laws  in  Annex  III  after  consulting  its 
Committee for the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  and  the  government  of  the  Region.  Laws  listed  in  Annex  III  to 
this Law shall be confined to those relating to defence and foreign affairs 
as well as other matters outside the limits of the autonomy of the Region 
as specified by this Law. 

In  the  event  that  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s 
Congress decides to declare a state of war or, by reason of turmoil within 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region which endangers national 
unity  or  security  and  is  beyond  the  control  of  the  government  of  the 
Region,  decides  that  the  Region  is  in  a  state  of  emergency,  the  Central 
People’s Government may issue an order applying the relevant national 
laws in the Region. 

Article 19 

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall be vested with 

independent judicial power, including that of final adjudication. 

The  courts  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall 
have jurisdiction over all cases in the Region, except that the restrictions 
on  their  jurisdiction  imposed  by  the  legal  system  and  principles 
previously in force in Hong Kong shall be maintained. 

63 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*The courts of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall 
have no jurisdiction over acts of state such as defence and foreign affairs. 
The  courts  of  the  Region  shall  obtain  a  certificate  from  the  Chief 
Executive  on  questions  of  fact  concerning  acts  of  state  such  as  defence 
and  foreign  affairs  whenever  such  questions  arise  in  the  adjudication  of 
cases. This certificate shall be binding on the courts. Before issuing such 
a certificate, the Chief Executive shall obtain a certifying document from 
the Central People’s Government. 

Article 20 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  may  enjoy  other 
powers  granted  to  it  by  the  National  People’s  Congress,  the  Standing 
Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  or  the  Central  People’s 
Government. 

Article 21 

Chinese  citizens  who  are  residents  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region shall be entitled to participate in the management 
of state affairs according to law. 

In  accordance  with  the  assigned  number  of  seats  and  the  selection 
method specified by the National People’s Congress, the Chinese citizens 
among  the  residents  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall  locally  elect  deputies  of  the  Region  to  the  National  People’s 
Congress to participate in the work of the highest organ of state power. 

Article 22 

No  department  of  the  Central  People’s  Government  and  no 
province, autonomous region, or municipality directly under the Central 
Government  may  interfere  in  the  affairs  which  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  administers  on  its  own  in  accordance  with  this 
Law. 

Note: 
*  See  Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress 
Regarding the First Paragraph of Article 13 and Article 19 of the Basic Law of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China (Adopted 
at the Twenty Second Meeting of the Standing Committee of the Eleventh National 
People’s Congress on 26 August 2011) (see Instrument 24) 

64 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If there is a need for departments of the Central Government, or for 
provinces,  autonomous  regions,  or  municipalities  directly  under  the 
Central  Government  to  set  up  offices  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region, they must obtain the consent of the government 
of the Region and the approval of the Central People’s Government. 

All  offices  set  up  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
by  departments  of 
the  Central  Government,  or  by  provinces, 
autonomous  regions,  or  municipalities  directly  under  the  Central 
Government, and the personnel of these offices shall abide by the laws of 
the Region. 

*For  entry  into  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region, 
people  from  other  parts  of  China  must  apply  for  approval.  Among 
them,  the  number  of  persons  who  enter  the  Region  for  the  purpose  of 
settlement  shall  be  determined  by  the  competent  authorities  of  the 
Central  People’s  Government  after  consulting  the  government  of  the 
Region. 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  may  establish  an 

office in Beijing. 

Article 23 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  enact  laws  on 
its  own  to  prohibit  any  act  of  treason,  secession,  sedition,  subversion 
against  the  Central  People’s  Government,  or  theft  of  state  secrets,  to 
prohibit  foreign  political  organizations  or  bodies  from  conducting 
political activities in the Region, and to prohibit political organizations or 
bodies  of  the  Region  from  establishing  ties  with  foreign  political 
organizations or bodies. 

Note: 
*  See The Interpretation by the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress 
Regarding Paragraph 4 in Article 22 and Category (3) of Paragraph 2 in Article 24 
of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s 
Republic of China (Adopted at the Tenth Meeting of the Standing Committee of the 
Ninth National People’s Congress on 26 June 1999) (see Instrument 15) 

65 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter III  Fundamental Rights and Duties of the Residents 

Article 24 

Residents of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (“Hong 
Kong  residents”)  shall  include  permanent  residents  and  non-permanent 
residents. 

The  permanent  residents  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 

Region shall be: 

(1)  Chinese  citizens  born  in  Hong  Kong  before  or  after  the 
establishment of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region; 

(2)  Chinese citizens who have ordinarily resided in Hong Kong for a 
continuous period of not less than seven years before or after the 
establishment of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region; 

*(3)  Persons of Chinese nationality born outside Hong Kong of those 

residents listed in categories (1) and (2); 

(4)  Persons not of Chinese nationality who have entered Hong Kong 
with  valid  travel  documents,  have  ordinarily  resided  in  Hong 
Kong for a continuous period of not less than seven years and 
have  taken  Hong  Kong  as  their  place  of  permanent  residence 
before  or  after  the  establishment  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region; 

(5)  Persons  under  21  years  of  age  born  in  Hong  Kong  of  those 
residents listed in category (4) before or after the establishment 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region; and 

Note: 
*  See The Interpretation by the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress 
Regarding Paragraph 4 in Article 22 and Category (3) of Paragraph 2 in Article 24 
of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s 
Republic of China (Adopted at the Tenth Meeting of the Standing Committee of the 
Ninth National People’s Congress on 26 June 1999) (see Instrument 15) 

66 

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(6)  Persons other than those residents listed in categories (1) to (5), 
who,  before  the  establishment  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region,  had  the  right  of  abode  in  Hong  Kong 
only. 

The  above-mentioned  residents  shall  have  the  right  of  abode  in  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  shall  be  qualified  to 
obtain,  in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  the  Region,  permanent  identity 
cards which state their right of abode. 

The  non-permanent 

the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region shall be persons who are qualified to obtain Hong 
Kong identity cards in accordance with the laws of the Region but have 
no right of abode. 

residents  of 

Article 25 

All Hong Kong residents shall be equal before the law. 

Article 26 

Permanent  residents  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region shall have the right to vote and the right to stand for election in 
accordance with law. 

Article 27 

Hong Kong residents shall have freedom of speech, of the press and 
of publication; freedom of association, of assembly, of procession and of 
demonstration; and the right and freedom to form and join trade unions, 
and to strike. 

Article 28 

The  freedom  of  the  person  of  Hong  Kong  residents  shall  be 

inviolable. 

No  Hong  Kong  resident  shall  be  subjected  to  arbitrary  or  unlawful 
arrest,  detention  or  imprisonment.  Arbitrary  or  unlawful  search  of  the 
body of any resident or deprivation or restriction of the freedom of the 
person  shall  be  prohibited.  Torture  of  any  resident  or  arbitrary  or 

67 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
unlawful deprivation of the life of any resident shall be prohibited. 

Article 29 

The  homes  and  other  premises  of  Hong  Kong  residents  shall  be 
inviolable. Arbitrary or unlawful search of, or intrusion into, a resident’s 
home or other premises shall be prohibited. 

Article 30 

The freedom and privacy of communication of Hong Kong residents 
shall  be  protected  by  law.  No  department  or  individual  may,  on  any 
grounds,  infringe  upon  the  freedom  and  privacy  of  communication  of 
residents except that the relevant authorities may inspect communication 
in accordance with legal procedures to meet the needs of public security 
or of investigation into criminal offences. 

Article 31 

Hong  Kong  residents  shall  have  freedom  of  movement  within  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and freedom of emigration to 
other  countries  and  regions.  They  shall  have  freedom  to  travel  and  to 
enter  or  leave  the  Region.  Unless  restrained  by  law,  holders  of  valid 
travel  documents  shall  be  free  to  leave  the  Region  without  special 
authorization. 

Article 32 

Hong Kong residents shall have freedom of conscience. 

Hong  Kong  residents  shall  have  freedom  of  religious  belief  and 
freedom to preach and to conduct and participate in religious activities in 
public. 

Article 33 

Hong Kong residents shall have freedom of choice of occupation. 

Article 34 

Hong  Kong  residents  shall  have  freedom  to  engage  in  academic 

research, literary and artistic creation, and other cultural activities. 

68 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 35 

Hong Kong residents shall have the right to confidential legal advice, 
access to the courts, choice of lawyers for timely protection of their lawful 
rights  and  interests  or  for  representation  in  the  courts,  and  to  judicial 
remedies. 

Hong  Kong  residents  shall  have  the  right  to 

legal 
proceedings in the courts against the acts of the executive authorities and 
their personnel. 

institute 

Article 36 

Hong  Kong  residents  shall  have  the  right  to  social  welfare  in 
accordance with law. The welfare benefits and retirement security of the 
labour force shall be protected by law. 

Article 37 

The freedom of marriage of Hong Kong residents and their right to 

raise a family freely shall be protected by law. 

Article 38 

Hong  Kong  residents  shall  enjoy  the  other  rights  and  freedoms 
safeguarded  by  the  laws  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region. 

Article 39 

The  provisions  of  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political 
Rights,  the  International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social  and  Cultural 
Rights,  and  international  labour  conventions  as  applied  to  Hong  Kong 
shall  remain  in  force  and  shall  be  implemented  through  the  laws  of  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

The  rights  and  freedoms  enjoyed  by  Hong  Kong  residents  shall  not 
be  restricted  unless  as  prescribed  by  law.  Such  restrictions  shall  not 
contravene the provisions of the preceding paragraph of this Article. 

69 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 40 

The  lawful  traditional  rights  and  interests  of  the  indigenous 
inhabitants  of  the  “New  Territories”  shall  be  protected  by  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region. 

Article 41 

Persons in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region other than 
Hong Kong residents shall, in accordance with law, enjoy the rights and 
freedoms of Hong Kong residents prescribed in this Chapter. 

Article 42 

Hong  Kong  residents  and  other  persons  in  Hong  Kong  shall  have  the 
obligation  to  abide  by  the  laws  in  force  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region. 

70 

 
 
Chapter IV  Political Structure 

Section 1  The Chief Executive 

Article 43 

The  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  shall  be  the  head  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region and shall represent the Region. 

The  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  shall  be  accountable  to  the  Central  People’s  Government  and 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of this Law. 

Article 44 

The  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region shall be a Chinese citizen of not less than 40 years of age who is a 
permanent resident of the Region with no right of abode in any foreign 
country and has ordinarily resided in Hong Kong for a continuous period 
of not less than 20 years. 

Article 45 

The  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region shall be selected by election or through consultations held locally 
and be appointed by the Central People’s Government. 

The method for selecting the Chief Executive shall be specified in the 
light  of  the  actual  situation  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  and  in  accordance  with  the  principle  of  gradual  and  orderly 
progress.  The  ultimate  aim  is  the  selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  by 
universal  suffrage  upon  nomination  by  a  broadly  representative 
nominating committee in accordance with democratic procedures. 

The specific method for selecting the Chief Executive is prescribed in 
Annex  I  “Method  for  the  Selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region”. 

71 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 46 

The term of office of the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  shall  be  five  years.  He  or  she  may  serve  for  not 
more than two consecutive terms. 

Article 47 

The  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 

Region must be a person of integrity, dedicated to his or her duties. 

The  Chief  Executive,  on  assuming  office,  shall  declare  his  or  her 
assets to the Chief Justice of the Court of Final Appeal of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region. This declaration shall be put on record. 

Article 48 

The  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 

Region shall exercise the following powers and functions: 

(1)  To lead the government of the Region; 

(2)  To be responsible for the implementation of this Law and other 
laws  which,  in  accordance  with  this  Law,  apply  in  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region; 

(3)  To  sign  bills  passed  by  the  Legislative  Council  and  to 

promulgate laws; 

To  sign  budgets  passed  by  the  Legislative  Council  and  report 
the  budgets  and  final  accounts  to  the  Central  People’s 
Government for the record; 

(4)  To  decide  on  government  policies  and  to  issue  executive 

orders; 

72 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(5)  To nominate and to report to the Central People’s Government 
for  appointment  the  following  principal  officials:  Secretaries 
and  Deputy  Secretaries  of  Departments,  Directors  of  Bureaux, 
Commissioner  Against  Corruption,  Director  of  Audit, 
Commissioner  of  Police,  Director  of  Immigration  and 
Commissioner  of  Customs  and  Excise;  and  to  recommend  to 
the  Central  People’s  Government  the  removal  of  the  above-
mentioned officials; 

(6)  To  appoint  or  remove  judges  of  the  courts  at  all  levels  in 

accordance with legal procedures; 

(7)  To  appoint  or  remove  holders  of  public  office  in  accordance 

with legal procedures; 

(8)  To  implement  the  directives  issued  by  the  Central  People’s 
Government  in  respect  of  the  relevant  matters  provided  for  in 
this Law; 

(9)  To  conduct,  on  behalf  of  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region,  external  affairs  and  other 
affairs as authorized by the Central Authorities; 

(10)  To approve the introduction of motions regarding revenues or 

expenditure to the Legislative Council; 

(11)  To  decide,  in  the  light  of  security  and  vital  public  interests, 
whether  government  officials  or  other  personnel  in  charge  of 
government  affairs  should  testify  or  give  evidence  before  the 
Legislative Council or its committees; 

(12)  To  pardon  persons  convicted  of  criminal  offences  or  commute 

their penalties; and 

(13)  To handle petitions and complaints. 

73 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 49 

If  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  considers  that  a  bill  passed  by  the  Legislative  Council  is  not 
compatible with the overall interests of the Region, he or she may return 
it  to  the  Legislative  Council  within  three  months  for  reconsideration.  If 
the  Legislative  Council  passes  the  original  bill  again  by  not  less  than  a 
two-thirds  majority  of  all  the  members,  the  Chief  Executive  must  sign 
and  promulgate  it  within  one  month,  or  act  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Article 50 of this Law. 

Article 50 

If  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  refuses  to  sign  a  bill  passed  the  second  time  by  the  Legislative 
Council, or the Legislative Council refuses to pass a budget or any other 
important  bill  introduced  by  the  government,  and  if  consensus  still 
cannot be reached after consultations, the Chief Executive may dissolve 
the Legislative Council. 

The  Chief  Executive  must  consult  the  Executive  Council  before 
dissolving the Legislative Council. The Chief Executive may dissolve the 
Legislative Council only once in each term of his or her office. 

Article 51 

If the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  refuses  to  pass  the  budget  introduced  by  the  government,  the 
Chief  Executive  may  apply  to  the  Legislative  Council  for  provisional 
appropriations.  If  appropriation  of  public  funds  cannot  be  approved 
because  the  Legislative  Council  has  already  been  dissolved,  the  Chief 
Executive  may,  prior  to  the  election  of  the  new  Legislative  Council, 
approve  provisional  short-term  appropriations  according  to  the  level  of 
expenditure of the previous fiscal year. 

Article 52 

The  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 

Region must resign under any of the following circumstances: 

74 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)  When he or she loses the ability to discharge his or her duties as 

a result of serious illness or other reasons; 

(2)  When,  after  the  Legislative  Council  is  dissolved  because  he  or 
she twice refuses to sign a bill passed by it, the new Legislative 
Council again passes by a two-thirds majority of all the members 
the original bill in dispute, but he or she still refuses to sign it; 
and 

(3)  When,  after  the  Legislative  Council  is  dissolved  because  it 
refuses  to  pass  a  budget  or  any  other  important  bill,  the  new 
Legislative  Council  still  refuses  to  pass  the  original  bill  in 
dispute. 

Article 53 

If  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region is not able to discharge his or her duties for a short period, such 
duties  shall  temporarily  be  assumed  by  the  Administrative  Secretary, 
Financial Secretary or Secretary of Justice in this order of precedence. 

*In  the  event  that  the  office  of  Chief  Executive  becomes  vacant,  a 
new Chief Executive shall be selected within six months in accordance with 
the provisions of Article 45 of this Law. During the period of vacancy, his 
or  her  duties  shall  be  assumed  according  to  the  provisions  of  the 
preceding paragraph. 

Article 54 

The  Executive  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  shall  be  an  organ  for  assisting  the  Chief  Executive  in  policy-
making. 

Note: 
*  See  Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress 
Regarding  the  Second  Paragraph  in  Article  53  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  (Adopted  at  the 
Fifteenth Meeting of the Standing Committee of the Tenth National People’s Congress 
on 27 April 2005) (see Instrument 18) 

75 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 55 

Members  of  the  Executive  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  shall  be  appointed  by  the  Chief  Executive  from 
among the principal officials of the executive authorities, members of the 
Legislative  Council  and  public  figures.  Their  appointment  or  removal 
shall  be  decided  by  the  Chief  Executive.  The  term  of  office  of  members 
of the Executive Council shall not extend beyond the expiry of the term 
of office of the Chief Executive who appoints them. 

Members  of  the  Executive  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  shall  be  Chinese  citizens  who  are  permanent 
residents of the Region with no right of abode in any foreign country. 

The Chief Executive may, as he or she deems necessary, invite other 

persons concerned to sit in on meetings of the Council. 

Article 56 

The  Executive  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 

Region shall be presided over by the Chief Executive. 

Except  for  the  appointment,  removal  and  disciplining  of  officials 
and  the  adoption  of  measures  in  emergencies,  the  Chief  Executive  shall 
consult the Executive Council before making important policy decisions, 
introducing  bills  to  the  Legislative  Council,  making  subordinate 
legislation, or dissolving the Legislative Council. 

If  the  Chief  Executive  does  not  accept  a  majority  opinion  of  the 

Executive Council, he or she shall put the specific reasons on record. 

Article 57 

A Commission Against Corruption shall be established in the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region. It shall function independently and 
be accountable to the Chief Executive. 

Article 58 

A  Commission  of  Audit  shall  be  established  in  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region.  It  shall  function  independently  and  be 
accountable to the Chief Executive. 

76 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  The Executive Authorities 

Article 59 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 

shall be the executive authorities of the Region. 

Article 60 

The  head  of  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 

Administrative Region shall be the Chief Executive of the Region. 

A  Department  of  Administration,  a  Department  of  Finance,  a 
Department of Justice, and various bureaux, divisions and commissions 
shall  be  established  in  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region. 

Article 61 

The  principal  officials  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  shall  be  Chinese  citizens  who  are  permanent  residents  of  the 
Region with no right of abode in any foreign country and have ordinarily 
resided in Hong Kong for a continuous period of not less than 15 years. 

Article 62 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 

shall exercise the following powers and functions: 

(1)  To formulate and implement policies; 

(2)  To conduct administrative affairs; 

(3)  To conduct external affairs as authorized by the Central People’s 

Government under this Law; 

(4)  To draw up and introduce budgets and final accounts; 

77 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(5)  To  draft  and 
legislation; and 

introduce  bills,  motions  and  subordinate 

(6)  To designate officials to sit in on the meetings of the Legislative 

Council and to speak on behalf of the government. 

Article 63 

The Department of Justice of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 

Region shall control criminal prosecutions, free from any interference. 

Article 64 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
must abide by the law and be accountable to the Legislative Council of 
the  Region:  it  shall  implement  laws  passed  by  the  Council  and  already 
in  force;  it  shall  present  regular  policy  addresses  to  the  Council;  it  shall 
answer  questions  raised  by  members  of  the  Council;  and  it  shall  obtain 
approval from the Council for taxation and public expenditure. 

Article 65 

The previous system of establishing advisory bodies by the executive 

authorities shall be maintained. 

Section 3  The Legislature 

Article 66 

The  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 

Region shall be the legislature of the Region. 

Article 67 

The  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  shall  be  composed  of  Chinese  citizens  who  are  permanent 
residents  of  the  Region  with  no  right  of  abode  in  any  foreign  country. 
However,  permanent  residents  of  the  Region  who  are  not  of  Chinese 

78 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nationality or who have the right of abode in foreign countries may also 
be  elected  members  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Region,  provided 
that  the  proportion  of  such  members  does  not  exceed  20  percent  of  the 
total membership of the Council. 

Article 68 

The  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 

Region shall be constituted by election. 

The method for forming the Legislative Council shall be specified in 
the light of the actual situation in the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  and  in  accordance  with  the  principle  of  gradual  and  orderly 
progress.  The  ultimate  aim  is  the  election  of  all  the  members  of  the 
Legislative Council by universal suffrage. 

The  specific  method  for  forming  the  Legislative  Council  and  its 
procedures  for  voting  on  bills  and  motions  are  prescribed  in  Annex  II: 
“Method for the Formation of the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region and Its Voting Procedures”. 

Article 69 

The  term  of  office  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  shall  be  four  years,  except  the  first  term 
which shall be two years. 

Article 70 

If the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  is  dissolved  by  the  Chief  Executive  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of this Law, it must, within three months, be reconstituted by 
election in accordance with Article 68 of this Law. 

Article 71 

The  President  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region shall be elected by and from among the members 
of the Legislative Council. 

79 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  President  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region shall be a Chinese citizen of not less than 40 years 
of age, who is a permanent resident of the Region with no right of abode 
in  any  foreign  country  and  has  ordinarily  resided  in  Hong  Kong  for  a 
continuous period of not less than 20 years.

 Article 72 

The  President  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region shall exercise the following powers and functions: 

(1)  To preside over meetings; 

(2)  To decide on the agenda, giving priority to government bills for 

inclusion in the agenda; 

(3)  To decide on the time of meetings; 

(4)  To call special sessions during the recess; 

(5)  To  call  emergency  sessions  on  the  request  of  the  Chief 

Executive; and 

(6)  To exercise other powers and functions as prescribed in the rules 

of procedure of the Legislative Council. 

Article 73 

The  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 

Region shall exercise the following powers and functions: 

(1)  To  enact,  amend  or  repeal  laws  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of this Law and legal procedures; 

(2)  To  examine  and  approve  budgets 

introduced  by 

the 

government; 

(3)  To approve taxation and public expenditure; 

80 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
(4)  To  receive  and  debate  the  policy  addresses  of  the  Chief 

Executive; 

(5)  To raise questions on the work of the government; 

(6)  To debate any issue concerning public interests; 

(7)  To  endorse  the  appointment  and  removal  of  the  judges  of  the 

Court of Final Appeal and the Chief Judge of the High Court; 

(8)  To receive and handle complaints from Hong Kong residents; 

(9) 

If a motion initiated jointly by one-fourth of all the members of 
the  Legislative  Council  charges  the  Chief  Executive  with 
serious  breach  of  law  or  dereliction  of  duty  and  if  he  or  she 
refuses  to  resign,  the  Council  may,  after  passing  a  motion  for 
investigation, give a mandate to the Chief Justice of the Court 
of Final Appeal to form and chair an independent investigation 
committee.  The  committee  shall  be  responsible  for  carrying 
out  the  investigation  and  reporting  its  findings  to  the  Council. 
If 
to 
substantiate  such  charges,  the  Council  may  pass  a  motion  of 
impeachment  by  a  two-thirds  majority  of  all  its  members  and 
report it to the Central People’s Government for decision; and 

the  committee  considers 

the  evidence  sufficient 

(10)  To summon, as required when exercising the above-mentioned 
powers  and  functions,  persons  concerned  to  testify  or  give 
evidence. 

Article 74 

Members  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  may  introduce  bills  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  this  Law  and  legal  procedures.  Bills  which  do  not  relate 
to  public  expenditure  or  political  structure  or  the  operation  of  the 
government may be introduced individually or jointly by members of the 
Council.  The  written  consent  of  the  Chief  Executive  shall  be  required 
before bills relating to government policies are introduced. 

81 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 75 

The quorum for the meeting of the Legislative Council of the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region shall be not less than one half of all 
its members. 

The  rules  of  procedure  of  the  Legislative  Council  shall  be  made  by 

the Council on its own, provided that they do not contravene this Law. 

Article 76 

A  bill  passed  by  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  may  take  effect  only  after  it  is  signed  and 
promulgated by the Chief Executive. 

Article 77 

Members  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  shall  be  immune  from  legal  action  in  respect  of 
their statements at meetings of the Council. 

Article 78 

Members  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region shall not be subjected to arrest when attending or 
on their way to a meeting of the Council. 

Article 79 

The  President  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region shall declare that a member of the Council is no 
longer qualified for the office under any of the following circumstances: 

(1)  When he or she loses the ability to discharge his or her duties as 

a result of serious illness or other reasons; 

(2)  When he or she, with no valid reason, is absent from meetings 
for  three  consecutive  months  without  the  consent  of  the 
President of the Legislative Council; 

82 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3)  When  he  or  she  loses  or  renounces  his  or  her  status  as  a 

permanent resident of the Region; 

(4)  When he or she accepts a government appointment and becomes 

a public servant; 

(5)  When he or she is bankrupt or fails to comply with a court order 

to repay debts; 

(6)  When he or she is convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for 
one  month  or  more  for  a  criminal  offence  committed  within 
or  outside  the  Region  and  is  relieved  of  his  or  her  duties  by  a 
motion passed by two-thirds of the members of the Legislative 
Council present; and 

(7)  When  he  or  she  is  censured  for  misbehaviour  or  breach  of 
oath by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Legislative 
Council present. 

Section 4  The Judiciary 

Article 80 

The  courts  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  at  all 
levels  shall  be  the  judiciary  of  the  Region,  exercising  the  judicial  power 
of the Region. 

Article 81 

The  Court  of  Final  Appeal,  the  High  Court,  district  courts, 
magistrates’  courts  and  other  special  courts  shall  be  established  in  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region.  The  High  Court  shall 
comprise the Court of Appeal and the Court of First Instance. 

The  judicial  system  previously  practised  in  Hong  Kong  shall  be 
maintained except for those changes consequent upon the establishment 

83 

 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the Court of Final Appeal of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region. 

Article 82 

The  power  of  final  adjudication  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region shall be vested in the Court of Final Appeal of the 
Region,  which  may  as  required  invite  judges  from  other  common  law 
jurisdictions to sit on the Court of Final Appeal. 

Article 83 

The structure, powers and functions of the courts of the Hong Kong 

Special Administrative Region at all levels shall be prescribed by law. 

Article 84 

The  courts  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall 
adjudicate cases in accordance with the laws applicable in the Region as 
prescribed in Article 18 of this Law and may refer to precedents of other 
common law jurisdictions.

 Article 85 

The  courts  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall  exercise  judicial  power  independently,  free  from  any  interference. 
Members  of  the  judiciary  shall  be  immune  from  legal  action  in  the 
performance of their judicial functions. 

Article 86 

The principle of trial by jury previously practised in Hong Kong shall 

be maintained. 

Article 87 

In  criminal  or  civil  proceedings 

in  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region, the principles previously applied in Hong Kong 
and  the  rights  previously  enjoyed  by  parties  to  proceedings  shall  be 
maintained. 

84 

 
 
 
 
 
Anyone who is lawfully arrested shall have the right to a fair trial by 
the  judicial  organs  without  delay  and  shall  be  presumed  innocent  until 
convicted by the judicial organs. 

Article 88 

shall  be  appointed  by 

Judges  of  the  courts  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region 
the 
recommendation  of  an  independent  commission  composed  of  local 
judges,  persons  from  the  legal  profession  and  eminent  persons  from 
other sectors. 

the  Chief  Executive  on 

Article 89 

A judge of a court of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
may  only  be  removed  for  inability  to  discharge  his  or  her  duties,  or  for 
misbehaviour,  by  the  Chief  Executive  on  the  recommendation  of  a 
tribunal appointed by the Chief Justice of the Court of Final Appeal and 
consisting of not fewer than three local judges. 

The  Chief  Justice  of  the  Court  of  Final  Appeal  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  may  be  investigated  only  for  inability  to 
discharge his or her duties, or for misbehaviour, by a tribunal appointed 
by the Chief Executive and consisting of not fewer than five local judges 
and may be removed by the Chief Executive on the recommendation of 
the  tribunal  and  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  prescribed  in  this 
Law. 

Article 90 

The Chief Justice of the Court of Final Appeal and the Chief Judge 
of the High Court of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall 
be  Chinese  citizens  who  are  permanent  residents  of  the  Region  with  no 
right of abode in any foreign country. 

In the case of the appointment or removal of judges of the Court of 
Final Appeal and the Chief Judge of the High Court of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region, the Chief Executive shall, in addition to 
following  the  procedures  prescribed  in  Articles  88  and  89  of  this  Law, 

85 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
obtain  the  endorsement  of  the  Legislative  Council  and  report  such 
appointment  or  removal  to  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s Congress for the record. 

Article 91 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  maintain  the 
previous system of appointment and removal of members of the judiciary 
other than judges. 

Article 92 

Judges and other members of the judiciary of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region shall be chosen on the basis of their judicial and 
professional  qualities  and  may  be  recruited  from  other  common  law 
jurisdictions. 

Article 93 

Judges  and  other  members  of  the  judiciary  serving  in  Hong  Kong 
before  the  establishment  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region may all remain in employment and retain their seniority with pay, 
allowances,  benefits  and  conditions  of  service  no  less  favourable  than 
before. 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall pay to judges and other members of the judiciary who retire or leave 
the  service  in  compliance  with  regulations,  including  those  who  have 
retired  or  left  the  service  before  the  establishment  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region,  or  to  their  dependants,  all  pensions, 
gratuities,  allowances  and  benefits  due  to  them  on  terms  no  less 
favourable  than  before,  irrespective  of  their  nationality  or  place  of 
residence. 

Article 94 

On  the  basis  of  the  system  previously  operating  in  Hong  Kong,  the 
Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  may 
make provisions for local lawyers and lawyers from outside Hong Kong 
to work and practise in the Region. 

86 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 95 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  may,  through 
consultations  and  in  accordance  with  law,  maintain  juridical  relations 
with  the  judicial  organs  of  other  parts  of  the  country,  and  they  may 
render assistance to each other. 

Article 96 

With  the  assistance  or  authorization  of  the  Central  People’s 
Government, the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  may  make  appropriate  arrangements  with  foreign  states  for 
reciprocal juridical assistance. 

Section 5  District Organizations 

Article 97 

District organizations which are not organs of political power may be 
established  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  to  be 
consulted by the government of the Region on district administration and 
other affairs, or to be responsible for providing services in such fields as 
culture, recreation and environmental sanitation. 

Article 98 

The  powers  and  functions  of  the  district  organizations  and  the 

method for their formation shall be prescribed by law. 

Section 6  Public Servants 

Article 99 

Public  servants  serving  in  all  government  departments  of  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region must be permanent residents of the 
Region,  except  where  otherwise  provided  for  in  Article  101  of  this  Law 

87 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
regarding  public  servants  of  foreign  nationalities  and  except  for  those 
below a certain rank as prescribed by law. 

Public servants must be dedicated to their duties and be responsible 

to the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

Article 100 

Public  servants  serving  in  all  Hong  Kong  government  departments, 
including  the  police  department,  before  the  establishment  of  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region, may all remain in employment and 
retain  their  seniority  with  pay,  allowances,  benefits  and  conditions  of 
service no less favourable than before. 

Article 101 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
may employ British and other foreign nationals previously serving in the 
public service in Hong Kong, or those holding permanent identity cards 
of the Region, to serve as public servants in government departments at 
all  levels,  but  only  Chinese  citizens  among  permanent  residents  of  the 
Region  with  no  right  of  abode  in  any  foreign  country  may  fill  the 
following posts: the Secretaries and Deputy Secretaries of Departments, 
Directors  of  Bureaux,  Commissioner  Against  Corruption,  Director  of 
Audit,  Commissioner  of  Police,  Director  of  Immigration  and 
Commissioner of Customs and Excise. 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
may  also  employ  British  and  other  foreign  nationals  as  advisers  to 
government  departments  and,  when  required,  may  recruit  qualified 
candidates  from  outside  the  Region  to  fill  professional  and  technical 
posts  in  government  departments.  These  foreign  nationals  shall  be 
employed  only  in  their  individual  capacities  and  shall  be  responsible  to 
the government of the Region. 

Article 102 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall  pay  to  public  servants  who  retire  or  who  leave  the  service  in 

88 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
left  the  service 

compliance  with  regulations,  including  those  who  have  retired  or  who 
in  compliance  with  regulations  before  the 
have 
establishment  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  or  to 
their dependants, all pensions, gratuities, allowances and benefits due to 
them  on  terms  no  less  favourable  than  before,  irrespective  of  their 
nationality or place of residence. 

Article 103 

The  appointment  and  promotion  of  public  servants  shall  be  on  the 
basis  of  their  qualifications,  experience  and  ability.  Hong  Kong’s 
previous  system  of  recruitment,  employment,  assessment,  discipline, 
training and management for the public service, including special bodies 
for  their  appointment,  pay  and  conditions  of  service,  shall  be 
maintained, except for any provisions for privileged treatment of foreign 
nationals. 

Article 104 

*When  assuming  office,  the  Chief  Executive,  principal  officials, 
members of the Executive Council and of the Legislative Council, judges 
of  the  courts  at  all  levels  and  other  members  of  the  judiciary  in  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region must, in accordance with law, 
swear to uphold the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  swear  allegiance  to  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China. 

Note: 
*  See  Interpretation  of  Article  104  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China by the Standing Committee 
of the National People’s Congress (Adopted by the Standing Committee of the Twelfth 
National People’s Congress at its Twenty-fourth Session on 7 November 2016) (see 
Instrument 27) 

89 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter V  Economy 

Section 1  Public  Finance,  Monetary  Affairs,  Trade,  Industry  and 

Commerce 

Article 105 

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall, in accordance 
with  law,  protect  the  right  of  individuals  and  legal  persons  to  the 
acquisition,  use,  disposal  and  inheritance  of  property  and  their  right  to 
compensation for lawful deprivation of their property. 

Such compensation shall correspond to the real value of the property 
concerned  at  the  time  and  shall  be  freely  convertible  and  paid  without 
undue delay. 

The  ownership  of  enterprises  and  the  investments  from  outside  the 

Region shall be protected by law. 

Article 106 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  have 

independent finances. 

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall use its financial 
revenues exclusively for its own purposes, and they shall not be handed 
over to the Central People’s Government. 

The  Central  People’s  Government  shall  not  levy  taxes  in  the  Hong 

Kong Special Administrative Region. 

Article 107 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  follow  the 
principle of keeping expenditure within the limits of revenues in drawing 
up  its  budget,  and  strive  to  achieve  a  fiscal  balance,  avoid  deficits  and 
keep the budget commensurate with the growth rate of its gross domestic 
product. 

90 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 108 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  practise  an 

independent taxation system. 

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall, taking the low 
tax policy previously pursued in Hong Kong as reference, enact laws on 
its  own  concerning  types  of  taxes,  tax  rates,  tax  reductions,  allowances 
and exemptions, and other matters of taxation. 

Article 109 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall  provide  an  appropriate  economic  and  legal  environment  for  the 
maintenance  of  the  status  of  Hong  Kong  as  an  international  financial 
centre. 

Article 110 

The  monetary  and  financial  systems  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 

Administrative Region shall be prescribed by law. 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall,  on  its  own,  formulate  monetary  and  financial  policies,  safeguard 
the  free  operation  of  financial  business  and  financial  markets,  and 
regulate and supervise them in accordance with law. 

Article 111 

The Hong Kong dollar, as the legal tender in the Hong Kong Special 

Administrative Region, shall continue to circulate. 

The  authority  to  issue  Hong  Kong  currency  shall  be  vested  in  the 
Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region.  The 
issue  of  Hong  Kong  currency  must  be  backed  by  a  100  percent  reserve 
fund.  The  system  regarding  the  issue  of  Hong  Kong  currency  and  the 
reserve fund system shall be prescribed by law. 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
may authorize designated banks to issue or continue to issue Hong Kong 
currency under statutory authority, after satisfying itself that any issue of 

91 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
currency will be soundly based and that the arrangements for such issue 
are consistent with the object of maintaining the stability of the currency. 

Article 112 

No  foreign  exchange  control  policies  shall  be  applied  in  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region.  The  Hong  Kong  dollar  shall  be 
freely  convertible.  Markets  for  foreign  exchange,  gold,  securities, 
futures and the like shall continue. 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall safeguard the free flow of capital within, into and out of the Region. 

Article 113 

The  Exchange  Fund  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  shall  be  managed  and  controlled  by  the  government  of  the 
Region,  primarily  for  regulating  the  exchange  value  of  the  Hong  Kong 
dollar. 

Article 114 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  maintain  the 
status  of  a  free  port  and  shall  not  impose  any  tariff  unless  otherwise 
prescribed by law. 

Article 115 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  pursue  the 
policy of free trade and safeguard the free movement of goods, intangible 
assets and capital. 

Article 116 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  be  a  separate 

customs territory. 

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region may, using the name 
“Hong Kong, China”, participate in relevant international organizations 
trade 
and 

(including  preferential 

trade  agreements 

international 

92 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
arrangements), such as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and 
arrangements regarding international trade in textiles. 

Export  quotas,  tariff  preferences  and  other  similar  arrangements, 
which  are  obtained  or  made  by  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  or  which  were  obtained  or  made  and  remain  valid,  shall  be 
enjoyed exclusively by the Region. 

Article 117 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  may  issue  its  own 
certificates  of  origin  for  products  in  accordance  with  prevailing  rules  of 
origin. 

Article 118 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall  provide  an  economic  and  legal  environment  for  encouraging 
investments,  technological  progress  and  the  development  of  new 
industries. 

Article 119 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall  formulate  appropriate  policies  to  promote  and  co-ordinate  the 
development  of  various  trades  such  as  manufacturing,  commerce, 
tourism,  real  estate,  transport,  public  utilities,  services,  agriculture  and 
fisheries, and pay regard to the protection of the environment. 

Section 2  Land Leases 

Article 120 

All  leases  of  land  granted,  decided  upon  or  renewed  before  the 
establishment  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  which 
extend beyond 30 June 1997, and all rights in relation to such leases, shall 
continue to be recognized and protected under the law of the Region. 

93 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 121 

As  regards  all  leases  of  land  granted  or  renewed  where  the  original 
leases contain no right of renewal, during the period from 27 May 1985 to 
30  June  1997,  which  extend  beyond  30  June  1997  and  expire  not  later 
than  30  June  2047,  the  lessee  is  not  required  to  pay  an  additional 
premium as from 1 July 1997, but an annual rent equivalent to 3 per cent 
of  the  rateable  value  of  the  property  at  that  date,  adjusted  in  step  with 
any changes in the rateable value thereafter, shall be charged. 

Article 122 

In the case of old schedule lots, village lots, small houses and similar 
rural  holdings,  where  the  property  was  on  30  June  1984  held  by,  or,  in 
the  case  of  small  houses  granted  after  that  date,  where  the  property  is 
granted to, a lessee descended through the male line from a person who 
was  in  1898  a  resident  of  an  established  village  in  Hong  Kong,  the 
previous rent shall remain unchanged so long as the property is held by 
that lessee or by one of his lawful successors in the male line. 

Article 123 

Where  leases  of  land  without  a  right  of  renewal  expire  after  the 
establishment  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  they 
shall be dealt with in accordance with laws and policies formulated by the 
Region on its own. 

Section 3  Shipping 

Article 124 

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall maintain Hong 
Kong’s  previous  systems  of  shipping  management  and  shipping 
regulation, including the system for regulating conditions of seamen. 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall,  on  its  own,  define  its  specific  functions  and  responsibilities  in 
respect of shipping. 

94 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 125 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  be  authorized 
by the Central People’s Government to continue to maintain a shipping 
register and issue related certificates under its legislation, using the name 
“Hong Kong, China”. 

Article 126 

With the exception of foreign warships, access for which requires the 
special permission of the Central People’s Government, ships shall enjoy 
access to the ports of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in 
accordance with the laws of the Region. 

Article 127 

Private  shipping  businesses  and  shipping-related  businesses  and 
private  container  terminals  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region may continue to operate freely. 

Section 4  Civil Aviation 

Article 128 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall  provide  conditions  and  take  measures  for  the  maintenance  of  the 
status of Hong Kong as a centre of international and regional aviation. 

Article 129 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  continue  the 
previous system of civil aviation management in Hong Kong and keep its 
own  aircraft  register  in  accordance  with  provisions  laid  down  by  the 
Central  People’s  Government  concerning  nationality  marks  and 
registration marks of aircraft. 

Access  of  foreign  state  aircraft  to  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region shall require the special permission of the Central 
People’s Government. 

95 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 130 

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall be responsible 
on its own for matters of routine business and technical management of 
civil aviation, including the management of airports, the provision of air 
traffic  services  within  the  flight  information  region  of  the  Hong  Kong 
the  discharge  of  other 
Special  Administrative  Region,  and 
responsibilities  allocated  to 
it  under  the  regional  air  navigation 
procedures of the International Civil Aviation Organization. 

Article 131 

The  Central  People’s  Government  shall,  in  consultation  with  the 
Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  make 
arrangements providing air services between the Region and other parts 
of the People’s Republic of China for airlines incorporated in the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region and having their principal place of 
business  in  Hong  Kong  and  other  airlines  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China. 

Article 132 

All air service agreements providing air services between other parts 
of the People’s Republic of China and other states and regions with stops 
at  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  air  services 
between the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and other states 
and regions with stops at other parts of the People’s Republic of China 
shall be concluded by the Central People’s Government. 

In  concluding  the  air  service  agreements  referred  to  in  the  first 
paragraph  of  this  Article,  the  Central  People’s  Government  shall  take 
account  of  the  special  conditions  and  economic  interests  of  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region and consult the government of the 
Region. 

Representatives  of  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  may,  as  members  of  the  delegations  of  the 
Government of the People’s Republic of China, participate in air service 
consultations  conducted  by  the  Central  People’s  Government  with 

96 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
foreign governments concerning arrangements for such services referred 
to in the first paragraph of this Article. 

Article 133 

Acting  under  specific  authorizations  from  the  Central  People’s 
Government, the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region may: 

(1) 

renew  or  amend  air  service  agreements  and  arrangements 
previously in force; 

(2)  negotiate  and  conclude  new  air  service  agreements  providing 
routes  for  airlines  incorporated  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  and  having  their  principal  place  of 
business in Hong Kong and providing rights for over-flights and 
technical stops; and 

(3)  negotiate  and  conclude  provisional  arrangements  with  foreign 
states or regions with which no air service agreements have been 
concluded. 

All scheduled air services to, from or through Hong Kong, which do 
not operate to, from or through the mainland of China shall be regulated 
by the air service agreements or provisional arrangements referred to in 
this Article. 

Article 134 

The Central People’s Government shall give the Government of the 

Hong Kong Special Administrative Region the authority to: 

(1)  negotiate and conclude with other authorities all arrangements 
concerning  the  implementation  of  the  air  service  agreements 
and provisional arrangements referred to in Article 133 of this Law; 

(2) 

issue licences to airlines incorporated in the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  and  having  their  principal  place  of 
business in Hong Kong; 

97 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3)  designate  such  airlines  under  the  air  service  agreements  and 
provisional arrangements referred to in Article 133 of this Law; 
and 

(4) 

issue permits to foreign airlines for services other than those to, 
from or through the mainland of China. 

Article 135 

Airlines incorporated and having their principal place of business in 
Hong  Kong  and  businesses  related  to  civil  aviation  functioning  there 
prior  to  the  establishment  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region may continue to operate. 

98 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter VI  Education,  Science,  Culture,  Sports,  Religion,  Labour  and 

Social Services 

Article 136 

On  the  basis  of  the  previous  educational  system,  the  Government 
of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall,  on  its  own, 
formulate  policies  on  the  development  and  improvement  of  education, 
including  policies 
its 
the 
administration,  the  language  of  instruction,  the  allocation  of  funds,  the 
examination system, the system of academic awards and the recognition 
of educational qualifications. 

system  and 

educational 

regarding 

Community  organizations  and  individuals  may,  in  accordance  with 
law,  run  educational  undertakings  of  various  kinds  in  the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region. 

Article 137 

Educational institutions of all kinds may retain their autonomy and 
enjoy  academic  freedom.  They  may  continue  to  recruit  staff  and  use 
teaching  materials  from  outside  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region. Schools run by religious organizations may continue to provide 
religious education, including courses in religion. 

Students  shall  enjoy  freedom  of  choice  of  educational  institutions 
and  freedom  to  pursue  their  education  outside  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region. 

Article 138 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall,  on  its  own,  formulate  policies  to  develop  Western  and  traditional 
Chinese  medicine  and  to 
improve  medical  and  health  services. 
Community  organizations  and  individuals  may  provide  various  medical 
and health services in accordance with law. 

99 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 139 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall,  on  its  own,  formulate  policies  on  science  and  technology  and 
protect  by  law  achievements  in  scientific  and  technological  research, 
patents, discoveries and inventions. 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall, on its own, decide on the scientific and technological standards and 
specifications applicable in Hong Kong. 

Article 140 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall,  on  its  own,  formulate  policies  on  culture  and  protect  by  law  the 
achievements  and  the  lawful  rights  and  interests  of  authors  in  their 
literary and artistic creation. 

Article 141 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall not restrict the freedom of religious belief,  interfere in the  internal 
affairs  of  religious  organizations  or  restrict  religious  activities  which  do 
not contravene the laws of the Region. 

Religious  organizations  shall,  in  accordance  with  law,  enjoy  the 
rights  to  acquire,  use,  dispose  of  and  inherit  property  and  the  right  to 
receive  financial  assistance.  Their  previous  property  rights  and  interests 
shall be maintained and protected. 

Religious  organizations  may,  according  to  their  previous  practice, 
continue  to  run  seminaries  and  other  schools,  hospitals  and  welfare 
institutions and to provide other social services. 

Religious  organizations  and  believers  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  may  maintain  and  develop  their  relations  with 
religious organizations and believers elsewhere. 

100 

 
 
 
 
Article 142 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall,  on  the  basis  of  maintaining  the  previous  systems  concerning 
the  professions,  formulate  provisions  on  its  own  for  assessing  the 
qualifications for practice in the various professions. 

Persons  with  professional  qualifications  or  qualifications  for 
professional  practice  obtained  prior  to  the  establishment  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  may  retain  their  previous 
qualifications  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  regulations  and  codes  of 
practice. 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall  continue  to  recognize  the  professions  and  the  professional 
organizations  recognized  prior  to  the  establishment  of  the  Region,  and 
these  organizations  may,  on  their  own,  assess  and  confer  professional 
qualifications. 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
may,  as  required  by  developments  in  society  and  in  consultation  with 
the  parties  concerned,  recognize  new  professions  and  professional 
organizations. 

Article 143 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall, on its own, formulate policies on sports. Non-governmental sports 
organizations may continue to exist and develop in accordance with law. 

Article 144 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall maintain the policy previously practised in Hong Kong in respect of 
subventions  for  non-governmental  organizations  in  fields  such  as 
education,  medicine  and  health,  culture,  art,  recreation,  sports,  social 
welfare and social work. Staff members previously serving in subvented 
organizations  in  Hong  Kong  may  remain  in  their  employment  in 
accordance with the previous system. 

101 

 
 
 
Article 145 

On  the  basis  of  the  previous  social  welfare  system,  the  Government 
of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall,  on  its  own, 
formulate policies on the development and improvement of this system in 
the light of the economic conditions and social needs. 

Article 146 

Voluntary organizations providing social services in the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region may, on their own, decide their forms of 
service, provided that the law is not contravened. 

Article 147 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  on  its  own 

formulate laws and policies relating to labour. 

Article 148 

The  relationship  between  non-governmental  organizations  in  fields 
such  as  education,  science,  technology,  culture,  art,  sports,  the 
professions, medicine and health, labour, social welfare and social work 
as  well  as  religious  organizations 
the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  and  their  counterparts  on  the  mainland  shall  be 
based  on  the  principles  of  non-subordination,  non-interference  and 
mutual respect. 

in 

Article 149 

Non-governmental organizations in fields such as education, science, 
technology,  culture,  art,  sports,  the  professions,  medicine  and  health, 
labour, social welfare and social work as well as religious organizations in 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  may  maintain  and 
develop relations with their counterparts in foreign countries and regions 
and  with  relevant  international  organizations.  They  may,  as  required, 
use the name “Hong Kong, China” in the relevant activities. 

102 

 
 
 
  
 
 
Chapter VII  External Affairs 

Article 150 

Representatives  of  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  may,  as  members  of  delegations  of  the 
Government  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  participate 
in 
negotiations  at  the  diplomatic  level  directly  affecting  the  Region 
conducted by the Central People’s Government. 

Article 151 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  may  on  its  own, 
using  the  name  “Hong  Kong,  China”,  maintain  and  develop  relations 
and  conclude  and  implement  agreements  with  foreign  states  and  regions 
and  relevant  international  organizations  in  the  appropriate  fields, 
including  the  economic,  trade,  financial  and  monetary,  shipping, 
communications, tourism, cultural and sports fields. 

Article 152 

Representatives  of  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  may,  as  members  of  delegations  of  the  People’s 
international  organizations  or 
in 
Republic  of  China,  participate 
conferences  in  appropriate  fields  limited  to  states  and  affecting  the 
Region,  or  may  attend  in  such  other  capacity  as  may  be  permitted  by  the 
Central  People’s  Government  and  the  international  organization  or 
conference  concerned,  and  may  express  their  views,  using  the  name 
“Hong Kong, China”. 

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region may, using the name 
“Hong  Kong,  China”,  participate  in  international  organizations  and 
conferences not limited to states. 

The  Central  People’s  Government  shall  take  the  necessary  steps  to 
ensure that the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall continue 
to  retain  its  status  in  an  appropriate  capacity  in  those  international 
organizations of which the People’s Republic of China is a member and 
in which Hong Kong participates in one capacity or another. 

103 

 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Central  People’s  Government  shall,  where  necessary,  facilitate 
the  continued  participation  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  in  an  appropriate  capacity  in  those  international  organizations  in 
which  Hong  Kong  is  a  participant  in  one  capacity  or  another,  but  of 
which the People’s Republic of China is not a member. 

Article 153 

The application to the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of 
international  agreements  to  which  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  is  or 
becomes  a  party  shall  be  decided  by  the  Central  People’s  Government, 
in accordance with the circumstances and needs of the Region, and after 
seeking the views of the government of the Region. 

International agreements to which the People’s Republic of China is 
not a party but which are implemented in Hong Kong may continue to be 
implemented  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region.  The 
Central People’s Government shall, as necessary, authorize or assist the 
government  of  the  Region  to  make  appropriate  arrangements  for  the 
application to the Region of other relevant international agreements. 

Article 154 

The  Central  People’s  Government  shall  authorize  the  Government 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to issue, in accordance 
with  law,  passports  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of 
the  People’s  Republic  of  China  to  all  Chinese  citizens  who  hold 
permanent  identity  cards  of  the  Region,  and  travel  documents  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China  to  all  other  persons  lawfully  residing  in  the  Region.  The  above 
passports and documents shall be valid for all states and regions and shall 
record the holder’s right to return to the Region. 

The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
may apply immigration controls on entry into, stay in and departure from 
the Region by persons from foreign states and regions. 

104 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 155 

The  Central  People’s  Government  shall  assist  or  authorize  the 
Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  to 
conclude visa abolition agreements with foreign states or regions. 

Article 156 

The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  may,  as  necessary, 
establish official or semi-official economic and trade missions in foreign 
countries  and  shall  report  the  establishment  of  such  missions  to  the 
Central People’s Government for the record. 

Article 157 

The  establishment  of  foreign  consular  and  other  official  or  semi-
official missions in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall 
require the approval of the Central People’s Government. 

Consular  and  other  official  missions  established  in  Hong  Kong  by 
states which have formal diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic 
of China may be maintained. 

According  to  the  circumstances  of  each  case,  consular  and  other 
official  missions  established  in  Hong  Kong  by  states  which  have  no 
formal diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic of China may be 
permitted either to remain or be changed to semi-official missions. 

States  not  recognized  by  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  may  only 

establish non-governmental institutions in the Region. 

105 

Chapter VIII  Interpretation and Amendment of the Basic Law 

Article 158 

The  power  of  interpretation  of  this  Law  shall  be  vested  in  the 

Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress. 

The  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  shall 
authorize the courts of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to 
interpret on their own, in adjudicating cases, the provisions of this Law 
which are within the limits of the autonomy of the Region. 

The  courts  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  may 
also  interpret  other  provisions  of  this  Law  in  adjudicating  cases. 
However,  if  the  courts  of  the  Region,  in  adjudicating  cases,  need  to 
interpret  the  provisions  of  this  Law  concerning  affairs  which  are  the 
responsibility  of  the  Central  People’s  Government,  or  concerning  the 
relationship  between  the  Central  Authorities  and  the  Region,  and  if  such 
interpretation  will  affect  the  judgments  on  the  cases,  the  courts  of  the 
Region  shall,  before  making  their  final  judgments  which  are  not 
appealable,  seek  an  interpretation  of  the  relevant  provisions  from  the 
Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  through  the 
Court  of  Final  Appeal  of  the  Region.  When  the  Standing  Committee 
makes  an  interpretation  of  the  provisions  concerned,  the  courts  of  the 
Region,  in  applying  those  provisions,  shall  follow  the  interpretation  of 
the Standing Committee. However, judgments previously rendered shall 
not be affected. 

The  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  shall 
consult  its  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region before giving an interpretation of this Law. 

Article 159 

The power of amendment of this Law shall be vested in the National 

People’s Congress. 

106 

 
 
 
 
 
The  power  to  propose  bills  for  amendments  to  this  Law  shall  be 
vested  in  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress,  the 
State  Council  and  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region. 
Amendment  bills  from  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall be submitted to the National People’s Congress by the delegation of 
the Region to the National People’s Congress after obtaining the consent 
of  two-thirds  of  the  deputies  of  the  Region  to  the  National  People’s 
Congress, two-thirds of all the members of the Legislative Council of the 
Region, and the Chief Executive of the Region. 

Before a bill for amendment to this Law is put on the agenda of the 
National  People’s  Congress,  the  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall study it and submit its 
views. 

No  amendment  to  this  Law  shall  contravene  the  established  basic 

policies of the People’s Republic of China regarding Hong Kong. 

107 

Chapter IX  Supplementary Provisions 

Article 160 

Upon  the  establishment  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region,  the  laws  previously  in  force  in  Hong  Kong  shall  be  adopted  as 
laws of the Region except for those which the Standing Committee of the 
National People’s Congress declares to be in contravention of this Law. 
If any laws are later discovered to be in contravention of this Law, they 
shall be amended or cease to have force in accordance with the procedure 
as prescribed by this Law. 

Documents,  certificates,  contracts,  and  rights  and  obligations  valid 
under  the  laws  previously  in  force  in  Hong  Kong  shall  continue  to  be 
valid  and  be  recognized  and  protected  by  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region, provided that they do not contravene this Law. 

108 

 
 
 
Annex I 

Method  for  the  Selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  of  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 

(Adopted  at  the  Third  Session  of  the  Seventh  National  People’s 
Congress  on  4  April  1990,  amended,  as  approved  at  the  Sixteenth 
Meeting  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  Eleventh  National  People’s 
Congress  on  28  August  2010,  and  amended  at  the  Twenty-Seventh 
Meeting of the Standing Committee of the Thirteenth National People’s 
Congress on 30 March 2021) 

1. The Chief Executive shall be elected in accordance with this Law 
by  an  Election  Committee  which  is  broadly  representative,  suited  to 
the  actual  situation  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
(HKSAR),  and  represents  the  overall  interests  of  society,  and  shall  be 
appointed by the Central People’s Government. 

2.  The  Election  Committee  shall  be  composed  of  1,500  members 

from the following sectors: 

First Sector: Industrial, commercial and financial 

sectors 

Second Sector: The professions 
Third Sector: Grassroots, labour, religious and other 

sectors 

Fourth Sector: Members of the Legislative Council, 

representatives of district organisations and other 
organisations 

Fifth Sector: HKSAR deputies to the National People’s 

Congress (NPC), HKSAR members of the National 
Committee of the Chinese People’s Political 
Consultative Conference (CPPCC), and 
representatives of Hong Kong members of 
relevant national organisations 

300 
300 

300 

300 

300 

Members of the Election Committee must be permanent residents of 

the HKSAR. 

The term of office of the Election Committee shall be five years. 

109 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  The  delimitation  of  and  the  number  of  seats  allocated  to  each 

sector of the Election Committee are as follows: 

The First Sector shall be composed of the following 18 subsectors: 

Industrial (first) 
Industrial (second) 
Textiles and garment 
Commercial (first) 
Commercial (second) 
Commercial (third) 
Finance 
Financial services 
Insurance 
Real estate and construction 
Transport 
Import and export 
Tourism 
Hotel 
Catering 
Wholesale and retail 
Employers’ Federation of Hong Kong 
Small and medium enterprises 

17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
16 
16 
17 
15 
15 

The Second Sector shall be composed of the following 10 subsectors: 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 
30 

Technology and innovation 
Engineering 
Architectural, surveying, planning and landscape 
Accountancy 
Legal 
Education 
Sports, performing arts, culture and publication 
Medical and health services 
Chinese medicine 
Social welfare 

The Third Sector shall be composed of the following five subsectors: 
60 
60 
60 

Agriculture and fisheries 
Labour 
Grassroots associations 

110 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Associations of Chinese fellow townsmen 
Religious 

60 
60 

The  Fourth  Sector  shall  be  composed  of  the  following  five 

subsectors: 

Members of the Legislative Council 
Heung Yee Kuk 
Representatives of members of Area Committees, 

District Fight Crime Committees, and District Fire 
Safety Committees of Hong Kong Island and 
Kowloon 

Representatives of members of Area Committees, 

District Fight Crime Committees, and District Fire 
Safety Committees of the New Territories 

Representatives of associations of Hong Kong residents 

in the Mainland 

90 
27 

76 

80 

27 

The Fifth Sector shall be composed of the following two subsectors: 

HKSAR deputies to the NPC and HKSAR members of 

the CPPCC National Committee 

Representatives of Hong Kong members of relevant 

national organisations 

190 

110 

4.  The  Election  Committee  shall  be  constituted  in  the  following 

manner: 

(1)  HKSAR  deputies  to  the  NPC,  HKSAR  members  of  the 
CPPCC  National  Committee,  Hong  Kong  members  of 
the  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of  the  HKSAR  under 
the NPC Standing Committee, members of the Legislative 
Council,  university  presidents  or  chairpersons  of  the 
board  of  governors  or  the  council  of  universities,  and 
responsible  persons  of  statutory  bodies,  advisory  bodies 
and relevant associations of the subsectors of engineering 
(15), architectural, surveying, planning and landscape (15), 
education  (5),  medical  and  health  services  (15)  and  social 
welfare  (15)  shall  be  Election  Committee  members  of  the 
corresponding subsectors. 

111 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An  HKSAR  deputy  to  the  NPC  or  an  HKSAR  member 
of the CPPCC National Committee may choose to register 
as  an  Election  Committee  member  in  a  subsector  other 
than  one  in  the  Fifth  Sector  with  which  he  or  she  has 
a  substantial  connection.  If  an  HKSAR  deputy  to  the 
NPC  or  an  HKSAR  member  of  the  CPPCC  National 
Committee is registered as an Election Committee member 
in  a  subsector  other  than  one  in  the  Fifth  Sector,  his  or 
her  seat  shall  be  counted  as  one  in  that  subsector  and 
the  number  of  members  to  be  returned  by  that  subsector 
in  accordance  with  paragraph  (3)  of  this  subsection 
shall  be  reduced  accordingly.  After  the  registration  of 
HKSAR  deputies  to  the  NPC  and  HKSAR  members  of 
the  CPPCC  National  Committee  as  Election  Committee 
members  of  the  relevant  subsectors,  the  number  of 
members to be returned by those subsectors in accordance 
with  paragraphs  (1),  (2)  and  (3)  of  this  subsection,  as 
determined  by  the  provision  in  this  sub-paragraph,  shall 
remain unchanged within the term of office of the Election 
Committee. 

(2)  Election  Committee  members  of  the  religious  subsector 

shall be nominated; 

15  members  of  the  technology  and  innovation  subsector 
shall be nominated from among Hong Kong academicians 
of  the  Chinese  Academy  of  Sciences  and  the  Chinese 
Academy of Engineering; 

15  members  of  the  accountancy  subsector  shall  be 
nominated from among Hong Kong Accounting Advisors 
appointed by the Ministry of Finance; 

9 members of the legal subsector shall be nominated from 
among Hong Kong members of the Council of the China 
Law Society; 

112 

 
 
 
 
 
15  members  of  the  sports,  performing  arts,  culture  and 
publication  subsector  shall  be  nominated  respectively  by 
the  Sports  Federation  and  Olympic  Committee  of  Hong 
Kong,  China,  China  Federation  of  Literary  and  Art 
Circles Hong Kong Member Association and Hong Kong 
Publishing Federation; 

15  members  of  the  Chinese  medicine  subsector  shall  be 
nominated  from  among  Hong  Kong  members  of  the 
Council  of  the  World  Federation  of  Chinese  Medicine 
Societies; and 

The 27 members of the subsector of representatives of 
associations of Hong Kong residents in the Mainland shall 
be nominated by such associations. 

(3)  Election  Committee  members  of  a  subsector,  except 
for  those  specified  in  paragraphs  (1)  and  (2)  of  this 
subsection,  shall  be  elected  by  eligible  corporate  voters 
for  the  corresponding  subsector.  Eligible  corporate 
voters  for  subsectors  shall  be  composed  of  institutions, 
organisations,  associations  or  enterprises  which  are 
representative  and  specified  by  law.  Unless  specified 
in  the  electoral  law  of  the  HKSAR,  an  association  or 
enterprise  may  become  a  corporate  voter  for  a  subsector 
only  if  it  has  been  operating  for  not  less  than  three  years 
after  acquiring  relevant  qualifications  for  that  subsector. 
Election  Committee  members  of  subsectors  -- the  Heung 
Yee Kuk, representatives of members of Area Committees, 
District  Fight  Crime  Committees,  and  District  Fire 
Safety  Committees  of  Hong  Kong  Island  and  Kowloon, 
and  representatives  of  members  of  Area  Committees, 
District Fight Crime Committees, and District Fire Safety 
Committees  of  the  New  Territories  in  the  Fourth  Sector 
and  representatives  of  Hong  Kong  members  of  relevant 
national  organisations  in  the  Fifth  Sector  may  be  elected 
by individual voters. A candidate for Election Committee 
member  of  a  subsector  shall  be  nominated  by  five  voters 

113 

 
 
 
 
 
for  the  subsector.  The  number  of  candidates  each  voter 
for a subsector may nominate shall not exceed the number 
of seats allocated to the subsector. Voters for a subsector 
of the Election Committee shall elect Election Committee 
members of that subsector from the list of nominations by 
secret ballot. 

The specific method for returning the Election Committee members 
referred  to  in  the  preceding  subsection,  including  the  definition  of 
statutory  bodies,  advisory  bodies,  relevant  associations  and  eligible 
corporate  voters  for  relevant  subsectors,  the  method  for  nomination  of 
candidates and the method for voting shall be prescribed by the electoral 
law of the HKSAR. 

5. There shall be a system of conveners for the Election Committee. 
The conveners shall be responsible for convening meetings of the Election 
Committee  as  necessary  and  handle  relevant  matters.  A  chief  convener 
shall  be  an  Election  Committee  member  who  holds  an  office  of  state 
leadership. The chief convener shall designate a number of conveners for 
each sector of the Election Committee. 

6. A candidate for the office of Chief Executive shall be nominated 
by  not  less  than  188  members  of  the  Election  Committee,  with  not  less 
than 15 members from each of the five sectors. Each Election Committee 
member may nominate one candidate only. 

7. The Election Committee shall elect the Chief Executive designate 
from  the  list  of  nominations  by  secret  ballot  on  a  one-person-one-vote 
basis.  The  Chief  Executive  designate  must  obtain  more  than  750  votes. 
The  specific  election  method  shall  be  prescribed  by  the  electoral  law  of 
the HKSAR. 

8. The Candidate Eligibility Review Committee of the HKSAR shall 
be responsible for reviewing and confirming the eligibility of candidates 
for  Election  Committee  members  and  for  the  office  of  Chief  Executive. 
The Committee for Safeguarding National Security of the HKSAR shall, 
on  the  basis  of  the  review  by  the  department  for  safeguarding  national 
security of the Police Force of the HKSAR, make findings as to whether 

114 

 
a  candidate  for  Election  Committee  member  or  for  the  office  of  Chief 
Executive  meets  the  legal  requirements  and  conditions  of  upholding 
the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of 
the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  swearing  allegiance  to  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China, 
and  issue  an  opinion  to  the  Candidate  Eligibility  Review  Committee 
of  the  HKSAR  in  respect  of  a  candidate  who  fails  to  meet  such  legal 
requirements and conditions. 

No  legal  proceedings  may  be  instituted  in  respect  of  a  decision 
made by the Candidate Eligibility Review Committee of the HKSAR on 
the  eligibility  of  a  candidate  for  Election  Committee  member  or  for  the 
office  of  Chief  Executive  pursuant  to  the  opinion  of  the  Committee  for 
Safeguarding National Security of the HKSAR. 

9.  The  HKSAR  shall,  in  accordance  with  the  law,  take  measures 

against acts of manipulating or undermining election. 

10. The NPC Standing Committee exercises in accordance with the 
law the power to amend this Method. Prior to making any amendment, 
the  NPC  Standing  Committee  shall  solicit  views  of  various  sectors  of 
Hong Kong by appropriate means. 

11. The term of office of the Election Committee constituted under 
the Method previously in force shall terminate upon the commencement 
of  term  of  office  of  the  Election  Committee  constituted  under  this 
Method. 

12. This Method shall come into force on 31 March 2021. Annex I 

and its amendment previously in force shall cease to apply. 

(Translation for information) 

115 

 
Annex II  Method  for  the  Formation  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  Its  Voting 
Procedures 

(Adopted  at  the  Third  Session  of  the  Seventh  National  People’s 
Congress on 4 April 1990, amended, as recorded at the Sixteenth Meeting 
of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  Eleventh  National  People’s  Congress 
on 28 August 2010, and amended at the Twenty-Seventh Meeting of the 
Standing Committee of the Thirteenth National People’s Congress on 30 
March 2021) 

1. The Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region (HKSAR) shall be composed of 90 members for each term. The 
composition of the Legislative Council shall be as follows: 
Members returned by the Election Committee 
Members returned by functional constituencies 
Members returned by geographical constituencies 

40 
30 

through direct elections 

20 

The above-mentioned Election Committee refers to the one provided 

for in Annex I to this Law. 

2.  Candidates  for  members  of  the  Legislative  Council  returned  by 
the  Election  Committee  shall  be  nominated  by  at  least  10  but  no  more 
than 20 members of the Election Committee, with at least 2 but no more 
than  4  members  from  each  sector.  Any  eligible  voter  in  an  election  of 
the Legislative Council may be nominated as a candidate. Each Election 
Committee member may nominate one candidate only. 

The  Election  Committee  shall  elect  members  of  the  Legislative 
Council  from  the  list  of  nominations  by  secret  ballot.  A  ballot  paper  is 
valid only if the number of candidates voted for is equal to the number 
of members of the Legislative Council to be returned. The 40 candidates 
who obtain the highest numbers of votes shall be elected. 

116 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. There shall be 28 functional constituencies for election of members 

of the Legislative Council: 

Agriculture and fisheries 
Heung Yee Kuk 
Industrial (first) 
Industrial (second) 
Textiles and garment 
Commercial (first) 
Commercial (second) 
Commercial (third) 
Finance 
Financial services 
Insurance 
Real estate and construction 
Transport 
Import and export 
Tourism 
Catering 
Wholesale and retail 
Technology and innovation 
Engineering 
Architectural, surveying, planning and landscape 
Accountancy 
Legal 
Education 
Sports, performing arts, culture and publication 
Medical and health services 
Social welfare 
Labour 
HKSAR deputies to the National People’s Congress (NPC), 
HKSAR members of the National Committee of the Chinese 

People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), and 
representatives of relevant national organisations 

Three members shall be returned by the labour functional constituency, 
and  one  member  shall  be  returned  by  each  of  the  other  functional 
constituencies. 

117 

 
Members  of  the  Legislative  Council  returned  by  the  following 

functional constituencies shall be elected by individual voters: 

Heung Yee Kuk 
Engineering 
Architectural, surveying, planning and landscape 
Accountancy 
Legal 
Education 
Medical and health services 
Social welfare 
HKSAR deputies to the NPC, HKSAR members of the CPPCC 
National Committee and representatives of relevant national 
organisations 

Members  of  the  Legislative  Council  returned  by  the  other  functional 
constituencies  shall  be  elected  by  eligible  corporate  voters.  Eligible 
corporate  voters  for  functional  constituencies  shall  be  composed 
of  institutions,  organisations,  associations  or  enterprises  which  are 
representative and specified by law. Unless specified in the electoral law 
of  the  HKSAR,  an  association  or  enterprise  may  become  a  corporate 
voter  for  a  functional  constituency  only  if  it  has  been  operating  for 
not  less  than  three  years  after  acquiring  relevant  qualifications  for  that 
functional constituency. 

A candidate for a functional constituency shall be nominated by at 
least  10  but  no  more  than  20  voters  for  the  functional  constituency  as 
well  as  at  least  2  but  no  more  than  4  members  from  each  sector  of  the 
Election  Committee.  Each  Election  Committee  member  may  nominate 
one candidate only for the election of members of the Legislative  Council 
returned by functional constituencies. 

Voters  for  a  functional  constituency  shall  elect  Legislative  Council 
member for that functional constituency from the list of nominations by 
secret ballot. 

The  delimitation  of  corporate  bodies  and  the  definition  of  eligible 
corporate  voters  for  functional  constituencies,  and  the  election  method 
shall be prescribed by the electoral law of the HKSAR. 

118 

 
4.  There  shall  be  10  geographical  constituencies  for  returning 
members  of  the  Legislative  Council  through  direct  elections.  Two 
members shall be returned by each geographical constituency. 

A  candidate  for  a  geographical  constituency  shall  be  nominated 
by  at  least  100  but  no  more  than  200  voters  for  the  geographical 
constituency as well as at least 2 but no more than 4 members from each 
sector  of  the  Election  Committee.  Each  Election  Committee  member 
may  nominate  one  candidate  only  for  direct  election  of  members  of  the 
Legislative Council returned by geographical constituencies. 

For  each  geographical  constituency,  a  voter  may  vote  for  one 
candidate on the list of nominations by secret ballot. The two candidates 
who obtain the highest numbers of votes shall be elected. 

The  delineation  of  geographical  constituencies  and  the  voting 

method shall be prescribed by the electoral law of the HKSAR. 

5. The Candidate Eligibility Review Committee of the HKSAR shall 
be responsible for reviewing and confirming the eligibility of candidates 
for members of the Legislative Council. The Committee  for Safeguarding 
National  Security  of  the  HKSAR  shall,  on  the  basis  of  the  review  by 
the  department  for  safeguarding  national  security  of  the  Police  Force 
of  the  HKSAR,  make  findings  as  to  whether  a  candidate  for  member 
of  the  Legislative  Council  meets  the  legal  requirements  and  conditions 
of  upholding  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  swearing  allegiance  to 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic 
of  China,  and  issue  an  opinion  to  the  Candidate  Eligibility  Review 
Committee  of  the  HKSAR  in  respect  of  a  candidate  who  fails  to  meet 
such legal requirements and conditions. 

No legal proceedings may be instituted in respect of a decision made 
by  the  Candidate  Eligibility  Review  Committee  of  the  HKSAR  on  the 
eligibility of a candidate for member of the Legislative Council pursuant 
to  the  opinion  of  the  Committee  for  Safeguarding  National  Security  of 
the HKSAR. 

119 

 
6.  The  HKSAR  shall,  in  accordance  with  the  law,  take  measures 

against acts of manipulating or undermining election. 

7. Unless otherwise provided for in this Law, the Legislative Council 

shall adopt the following procedures for voting on bills and motions: 

The  passage  of  bills  introduced  by  the  government  shall  require  a 
simple  majority  of  votes  of  the  members  of  the  Legislative  Council 
present. 

The  passage  of  motions,  bills  or  amendments  to  government  bills 
introduced  by  individual  members  of  the  Legislative  Council  shall 
require  a  simple  majority  of  votes  of  each  of  the  two  groups  of 
members present, i.e. members returned by the Election Committee, 
and those returned by functional constituencies and by geographical 
constituencies through direct elections. 

8.  The  NPC  Standing  Committee  exercises  in  accordance  with  the 
law  the  power  to  amend  this  Method  and  the  procedures  for  voting  on 
bills  and  motions.  Prior  to  making  any  amendment,  the  NPC  Standing 
Committee  shall  solicit  views  of  various  sectors  of  Hong  Kong  by 
appropriate means. 

9. This Method and the procedures for voting on bills and motions 
shall  come  into  force  on  31  March  2021.  Annex  II  and  its  amendment 
previously in force shall cease to apply. 

(Translation for information) 

120 

Annex III:  National  Laws 

to  be  Applied 

in 

the  Hong  Kong 

Special Administrative Region* 

The following national laws shall be applied locally with effect from 
1  July  1997  by  way  of  promulgation  or  legislation  by  the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region: 

1.  Resolution  on  the  Capital,  Calendar,  National  Anthem  and 

National Flag of the People’s Republic of China 

2.  Resolution on the National Day of the People’s Republic of China 
3.  Order  on  the  National  Emblem  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 

China Proclaimed by the Central People’s Government 

Attached:  Design  of  the  national  emblem,  notes  of  explanation  and 

instructions for use 

4.  Declaration of the Government of the People’s Republic of China 

on the Territorial Sea 

5.  Nationality Law of the People’s Republic of China 
6.  Regulations  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  Concerning 

Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities 

Note: 
*  For addition to and deletion from the list of laws in Annex III, please see: 

a.  Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress on adding 
to and deleting from the list of the national laws in Annex III to the Basic Law of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 
(Adopted at the Twenty Sixth Meeting of the Standing Committee of the Eighth 
National People’s Congress on 1 July 1997) (see Instrument 1); 

b.  Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress on adding a 
law to the list of the national laws in Annex III to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  (Adopted  on 
4 November 1998) (see Instrument 2); 

c.  Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress on adding a 
law to the list of the national laws in Annex III to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  (Adopted  on 
27 October 2005) (see Instrument 3); 

d.  Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress on adding a 
law to the list of the national laws in Annex III to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China (Adopted at the 
Thirtieth  Meeting  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  Twelfth  National  People’s 
Congress on 4 November 2017) (see Instrument 4); and 

e.  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on  the 
addition to the list of national laws in Annex III to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China (Adopted at the 
Twentieth Session of the Standing Committee of the Thirteenth National People’s 
Congress on 30 June 2020) (see Instrument 5). 

121 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instrument 1 

* Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People’s 
Congress on Adding to and Deleting from the List of the 
National Laws in Annex III to the Basic Law of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
People’s Republic of China 

(Adopted at the Twenty Sixth Meeting of the Standing Committee 
of the Eighth National People’s Congress on 1 July 1997) 

I.  The  following  national  laws  shall  be  added  to  Annex  III  to  the 
Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s Republic of China: 

(1)  Law of the People’s Republic of China on the National Flag 

(2)  Regulations  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  Concerning 

Consular Privileges and Immunities 

(3)  Law of the People’s Republic of China on the National Emblem 

(4)  Law  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  on  the  Territorial  Sea 

and the Contiguous Zone 

(5)  Law  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  on  Garrisoning  the 

Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 

The  national 
implemented  through 

laws  mentioned  above  shall  be  promulgated 
legislation  by  the  Hong  Kong  Special 

or 
Administrative Region as of 1 July 1997. 

II.  The  following  national  law  shall  be  deleted  from  Annex  III  to 
the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s Republic of China: 

Order  on  the  National  Emblem  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
Proclaimed by the Central People’s Government. 
Attached:  Design  of  the  national  emblem,  notes  of  explanation  and 
instructions for use. 

Note: 
*  This  English  translation  is  reproduced  from  “The  Laws  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China 1997” compiled by the Legislative Affairs Commission of the Standing Committee 
of the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China.  It is for reference 
only and has no legislative effect. 

122 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instrument 2 

* Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People’s 
Congress on Adding a Law to the List of the National Laws in 
Annex III to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 

(Adopted on 4 November 1998) 

At  its  5th  Meeting,  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  Ninth  National 
People’s  Congress  decides  to  add  the  national  law  on  the  Exclusive 
Economic  Zone  and  the  Continental  Shelf  of  the  People’s  Republic 
of  China  to  Annex  III  to  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China. 

Note: 
*  This  English  translation  is  reproduced  from  “The  Laws  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China 1998” compiled by the Legislative Affairs Commission of the Standing Committee 
of the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China.  It is for reference 
only and has no legislative effect. 

123 

 
 
Instrument 3 

* Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People’s 
Congress on Adding a Law to the List of the National Laws in 
Annex III to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 

(Adopted on 27 October 2005) 

At its 18th Meeting, the Standing Committee of the Tenth National 
People’s  Congress  decides  to  add  a  national  law  to  the  list  of  the 
national laws in Annex III to the Basic  Law of  the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China, i.e., the Law of 
the People’s Republic of China on Judicial Immunity from Compulsory 
Measures Concerning the Property of Foreign Central Banks. 

Note: 
*  This English translation is reproduced from “The Laws of the People’s Republic of China 
2005” compiled by the Legislative Affairs Commission of the Standing Committee of the 
National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China.  It is for reference only 
and has no legislative effect. 

124 

 
 
Instrument 4 

* Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People’s 
Congress on Adding a Law to the List of the National Laws in 
Annex III to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 

(Adopted at the Thirtieth Meeting of the Standing Committee of the 
Twelfth National People’s Congress on 4 November 2017) 

The  Thirtieth  meeting  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  Twelfth 
National People’s Congress decides: the national law being the “Law of 
the  People’s  Republic  of  China  on  the  National  Anthem”  is  added  to 
the list of laws in Annex III to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China. 

Note: 
*  This English translation is prepared by the Department of Justice, Government of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region.    It  is  for  reference  purposes  and  has  no 
legislative effect. 

125 

 
 
 
 
Instrument 5 

* Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People’s 
Congress on the Addition to the List of National Laws in 
Annex III to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 

(Adopted at the Twentieth Session of the Standing Committee of the 

Thirteenth National People’s Congress on 30 June 2020) 

In accordance with the “Decision of the National People’s Congress 
on  Establishing  and  Improving  the  Legal  System  and  Enforcement 
Mechanism  for  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  to 
Safeguard  National  Security”,  the  Twentieth  Session  of  the  Standing 
Committee  of  the  Thirteenth  National  People’s  Congress  decides:  the 
national  law  being  the  “Law  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  on 
Safeguarding National Security in the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region” is added to the list of laws in Annex III to the Basic Law of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic 
of  China,  and  shall  be  applied  locally  by  way  of  promulgation  by  the 
Region. 

Note: 
*  This English translation is prepared by the Department of Justice, Government of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region.  It  is  for  reference  purposes  and  has  no 
legislative effect. 

126 

 
 
 
 
 
The Design of the Regional Flag of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region 

The Design of the Regional Emblem of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region 

127 

Instrument 6 

* Explanations on “The Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of 
China (Draft)” and Its Related Documents 

(Addressing the Third Session of the Seventh National 
People’s Congress on 28 March 1990) 

Ji Pengfei 
Chairman  of  the  Drafting  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 

Fellow Deputies, 

Through  four  years  and  eight  months  of  effort,  the  Drafting 
Committee for The Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  has  completed  the  work  of 
drafting the Basic Law. The Standing Committee of the National People’s 
Congress  has  submitted  to  the  current  session  of  the  National  People’s 
Congress  for  examination  “The  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  (Draft)”  and 
three annexes; the draft designs of the regional flag and regional emblem 
for  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region:  “The  Decision  of 
the  National  People’s  Congress  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  on 
the  Method  for  the  Formation  of  the  First  Government  and  the  First 
Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
(Draft),”  which  has  been  worked  out  by  the  Drafting  Committee  on 
behalf  of  the  National  People’s  Congress;  and  “The  Proposal  by  the 
Drafting  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  on  the  Establishment  of  the  Committee  for  the 
Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  under  the 
Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress.”  I  have  been 
entrusted  by  the  Drafting  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region to make the following explanations 
concerning this legal document. 

In  accordance  with  “The  Decision  of  the  Third  Session  of  the 
Sixth  National  People’s  Congress  on  the  Establishment  of  the  Drafting 

128 

 
 
Committee for the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,”  at  its  11th  session  the 
Standing Committee of the Sixth National People’s Congress appointed 
the  members  of  the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  Drafting  Committee.  On 
1  July  1985,  the  Drafting  Committee  was  officially  established  and 
began its work. After mapping out its work plans and deciding upon the 
structure  of  the  Basic  Law,  the  Drafting  Committee  set  up  five  special 
groups  consisting  of  committee  members  from  both  the  mainland  and 
Hong  Kong.  The  five  groups,  namely,  the  Special  Group  Concerned 
with  the  Relationship  between  the  Central  Authorities  and  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region;  the  Special  Group  Concerned 
with  Fundamental  Rights  and  Duties  of  Residents;  the  Special  Group 
Concerned  with  the  Political  Structure;  the  Special  Group  Concerned 
with  the  Economy;  and  the  Special  Group  Concerned  with  Education, 
Science,  Technology,  Culture,  Sports  and  Religion,  were  responsible 
for  the  drafting  work.  After  these  special  groups  worked  out  their  first 
draft  of  provisions  of  the  Basic  Law,  the  General  Working  Group  was 
set  up  to  make  overall  adjustment  and  revision  of  the  draft  provisions. 
In April 1988, the seventh plenary session of the Hong Kong Basic Law 
Drafting  Committee  issued  “The  Draft  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  for 
Solicitation of Opinions.” In the next five months, the Committee widely 
collected  opinions  from  Hong  Kong  and  the  provinces,  autonomous 
regions,  municipalities  directly  under  the  Central  Government  and 
relevant  departments  on  the  mainland  and,  based  on  the  collected 
opinions,  the  Committee  made  more  than  100  revisions  in  the  draft 
version.  In  January  1989,  at  its  eighth  plenary  session,  the  Drafting 
Committee  voted  by  secret  ballot  on  the  draft  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law 
and  its  annexes  and  related  documents  to  be  submitted  to  the  Standing 
Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress,  article  by  article  and 
document  by  document.  Except  for  Article  19  in  the  draft  Basic  Law, 
all  other  provisions,  annexes  and  related  documents  were  adopted  by 
a  two-thirds  majority.  At  its  sixth  session  held  in  February  1989,  the 
Standing Committee of the Seventh National People’s Congress decided 
to promulgate the Hong Kong Basic Law (Draft), its annexes and other 
related documents to widely solicit opinions from Hong Kong; from the 
provinces,  autonomous  regions  and  municipalities  directly  under  the 
Central  Government  on  the  mainland;  and  from  central  government 

129 

departments, democratic parties, mass organizations and experts as well 
as from the general departments of the People’s Liberation Army. After 
an  eight-month  opinion-soliciting  period  followed  by  a  careful  study 
of  the  opinions  collected  from  all  circles,  the  special  groups  jointly  put 
forward  24  amendment  bills,  including  the  one  regarding  Article  19  in 
the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  (Draft).  At  the  ninth  plenary  session  of  the 
Drafting  Committee  in  February  this  year,  those  amendment  bills  were 
voted  upon  by  secret  ballot  one  by  one  and  all  of  them  were  passed  by 
an over two-thirds majority. Then, all relevant provisions in the original 
draft were replaced by provisions recommended by the amendment bills. 
With this, the work of drawing up the Hong Kong Basic Law (Draft), its 
annexes and other related documents was complete. 

The  collection  and  selection  of  designs  for  the  regional  flag  and 
regional  emblem  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
was  the  responsibility  of  the  Committee  for  Selecting  Designs  for 
the  Regional  Flag  and  Regional  Emblem  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region,  consisting  of  five  drafters  of  the  Basic  Law  and 
six experts from both Hong Kong and the mainland. After the selecting 
committee  conducted  the  first  and  second  rounds  of  selection  from  the 
7,147 contributed designs, the Basic Law Drafting Committee examined 
and  appraised  the  candidates  recommended  by  the  selecting  committee. 
Since  the  Drafting  Committee  failed  to  decide  upon  a  single  set  of 
designs for the regional flag and regional emblem to be submitted to the 
National  People’s  Congress  for  examination,  the  selecting  committee 
again  worked  out  three  sets  of  candidate  designs  of  the  regional  flag 
and regional emblem for the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
through collective modification of certain contributed designs. The draft 
designs of the regional flag and regional emblem to be submitted to the 
National  People’s  Congress  for  examination  were  finally  selected  at  the 
ninth  plenary  session  of  the  Basic  Law  Drafting  Committee  through  a 
secret ballot. Also at the session, the second and third paragraphs under 
Article 10 of the draft Basic Law regarding the regional flag and regional 
emblem of the Special Administrative Region were passed. 

Over  this  period  of  more  than  four  years,  the  Drafting  Committee 
has  held  nine  plenary  sessions,  25  meetings  of  the  Chairman  and  Vice-
Chairmen  and  two  enlarged  meetings  of  the  Chairman  and  Vice-

130 

Chairmen; the General Working Group held three meetings; the Special 
Groups  met  73  times;  and  even  the  Committee  for  Selecting  Designs 
for the Regional Flag and Regional Emblem of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region held five meetings. 

In  reviewing  the  work  done  over  this  period  of  more  than  four 
years,  we  must  say  that  drafting  of  this  legal  document  was  conducted 
in  a  very  democratic  and  open  manner.  During  the  process  of  drafting 
the  Basic  Law,  members  of  the  Drafting  Committee  worked  together 
with one heart and pooled their wisdom and efforts; and each and every 
article  of  the  document  was  worked  out  after  investigation,  study  and 
full discussion in which views of the majority were followed and those of 
the minority respected. After every meeting, reporters covering the event 
were  briefed  and  the  Consultative  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region was immediately informed of 
its proceedings. The work of drafting the Basic Law was completed with 
the close attention and broad participation of the entire nation, especially 
the  compatriots  and  people  from  all  circles  in  Hong  Kong.  What  is 
especially noteworthy here is that the Hong Kong Basic Law Consultative 
Committee,  formed  by  people  from  all  walks  of  life  in  Hong  Kong, 
collected a great amount of opinions and suggestions in Hong Kong on 
the  Basic  Law  and  promptly  referred  them  to  the  Drafting  Committee 
and  has  rendered  active  and  effective  assistance  to  the  work  of  drafting 
the  Basic  Law  from  the  very  beginning.  The  work  of  the  Consultative 
Committee has been praised by the drafters. 

Fellow Deputies, 

The  draft  Basic  Law  that  has  been  submitted  to  the  current  session 
of  the  National  People’s  Congress  for  examination  includes  a  Preamble 
and  160  articles  in  nine  chapters.  The  nine  chapters  are:  Chapter  I, 
General  Principles;  Chapter  II,  Relationship  Between  the  Central 
Authorities and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region; Chapter 
III,  Fundamental  Rights  and  Duties  of  the  Residents;  Chapter  IV, 
Political Structure; Chapter V, Economy; Chapter VI, Education, Science, 
Culture,  Sports,  Religion,  Labour  and  Social  Services;  Chapter  VII, 
External  Affairs;  Chapter  VIII,  Interpretation  and  Amendment  of  the 
Basic  Law;  and  Chapter  IX,  Supplementary  Provisions.  There  are  also 

131 

 
 
three  annexes,  namely,  Annex  I:  Method  for  the  Selection  of  the  Chief 
Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region;  Annex  II: 
Method for the Formation of the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region and Its Voting Procedures; and Annex III: 
National Laws to be Applied in the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region. 

I.  On the Guiding Principle of Drafting the Hong Kong Basic Law 

“One country, two systems” is the fundamental policy of the Chinese 
Government for bringing about the country’s reunification. In line with 
this policy, the Chinese Government has formulated a series of principles 
and  policies  regarding  Hong  Kong.  The  main  point  is  to  establish 
a  special  administrative  region  directly  under  the  Central  People’s 
Government when China resumes its sovereignty over Hong Kong. Except 
for  national  defence  and  foreign  affairs,  which  are  to  be  administered 
by  the  Central  Government,  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  will  exercise  a  high  degree  of  autonomy;  no  socialist  system  or 
policies  will  be  practiced  in  the  Region,  the  original  capitalist  society, 
economic  system  and  way  of  life  will  remain  unchanged  and  the  laws 
previously in force in Hong Kong will remain basically the same; Hong 
Kong’s  status  as  an  international  financial  centre  and  free  port  will  be 
maintained; and the economic interests of Britain and other countries in 
Hong  Kong  will  be  taken  into  consideration.  The  Chinese  Government 
has  written  the  above  principles  and  policies  into  the  Sino-British  Joint 
Declaration on the Question of Hong Kong and proclaimed that all the 
principles and policies regarding Hong Kong will remain unchanged for 
50 years, which is to be codified in the Basic Law. The concept of “one 
country, two systems” and all the principles and policies regarding Hong 
Kong  formulated  on  the  basis  of  this  concept  provide  the  fundamental 
guarantee  for  the  resumption  of  China’s  sovereignty  over  Hong  Kong 
and the maintenance of Hong Kong’s stability and prosperity; they also 
conform to the basic interests of the Chinese people, particularly those of 
the Hong Kong compatriots. 

Article  31  of  China’s  Constitution  stipulates  that  “the  state  may 
establish  special  administrative  regions  when  necessary.  The  systems  to 
be instituted in special administrative regions shall be prescribed by law 

132 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
enacted  by  the  National  People’s  Congress  in  the  light  of  the  specific 
conditions.”  China  is  a  socialist  country  and  socialism  is  China’s  basic 
system. To realize China’s reunification, however, another kind of social 
system,  namely,  the  capitalist  system,  may  be  practiced  in  individual 
regions of the country. It is on the basis of China’s Constitution and with 
“one  country,  two  systems”  as  the  guiding  principle  that  all  the  state 
principles and policies regarding Hong Kong have been established in the 
draft  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law,  which  has  been  submitted  to  the  present 
session of the National People’s Congress for examination. 

II.  On the relationship between the Central Authorities and the Hong 

Kong Special Administrative Region 

The relationship between the Central Authorities and the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region is one of the important issues defined by 
the  Basic  Law  and  is  touched  upon  not  only  in  Chapter  II  but  also  in 
Chapter I, Chapter VII, Chapter VIII and other chapters. 

Article  12  of  the  draft  stipulates,  “The  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  shall  be  a 
local  administrative  region  of 
the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  which  shall  enjoy  a  high  degree  of 
autonomy  and  come  directly  under  the  Central  People’s  Government.” 
This  stipulation  defines  the  legal  status  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  and  constitutes  the  basis  for  specifying  the 
Region’s limits of power and its relationship with the Central Authorities. 
The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  as  an  inalienable  part 
of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  will  be  a  local  administrative  region 
directly  under  the  Central  People’s  Government  and  at  the  same  time, 
it  will  be  a  special  administrative  region  enjoying  a  high  degree  of 
autonomy and practicing a system and executing policies different from 
those  of  the  mainland.  Therefore,  the  draft  Basic  Law  contains  both 
provisions  embodying  the  unity  and  sovereignty  of  the  country  and 
provisions  empowering  the  Special  Administrative  Region  with  a  high 
degree of autonomy in the light of Hong Kong’s special circumstances. 

The  power  to  be  exercised  by,  or  the  affairs  which  are  the 
responsibility  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s 
Congress or the Central People’s Government, as prescribed in the draft 

133 

 
 
 
 
 
 
law,  is  indispensable  to  maintaining  the  state  sovereignty.  For  example, 
the  Central  People’s  Government  will  be  responsible  for  the  Special 
Administrative  Region’s  defence  and  foreign  affairs  and  the  Chief 
Executive  and  other  principal  officials  of  the  Special  Administrative 
Region  will  be  appointed  by  the  Central  People’s  Government;  a  small 
number  of  national  laws  relating  to  defence  and  foreign  affairs  as  well 
as  other  matters  beyond  the  limits  of  the  autonomy  of  the  Special 
Administrative Region will be applied locally by way of promulgation or 
legislation  by  the  Special  Administrative  Region;  and  in  the  event  that 
the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing  Committee  decides  to  declare 
a  state  of  war  or,  by  reason  of  turmoil  within  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region which endangers national unity or security and is 
beyond  the  control  of  the  Special  Administrative  Region  Government, 
decides  that  the  Region  is  in  a  state  of  emergency,  the  Central  People’s 
Government  may  issue  an  order  applying  the  relevant  national  laws  in 
Hong  Kong.  The  draft  law  also  stipulates  that  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  shall  enact  laws  on  its  own  to  prohibit  any 
act  of  treason,  secession,  sedition,  or  subversion  against  the  Central 
People’s Government, or theft of state secret, to prohibit foreign political 
organizations or bodies from conducting political activities in the Region, 
and  to  prohibit  political  organizations  or  bodies  of  the  Region  from 
establishing  ties  with  foreign  political  organizations  or  bodies.  These 
stipulations  are  entirely  necessary  for  maintaining  the  state  sovereignty, 
unity and territorial integrity as well as for preserving Hong Kong’s long-
term stability and prosperity. 

The  high  degree  of  autonomy  to  be  enjoyed  by  the  Special 
Administrative  Region,  as  stipulated  in  the  draft,  embodies  executive, 
legislative  and  independent  judicial  power,  including  that  of  final 
adjudication.  The  Special  Administrative  Region,  authorized  by  the 
Central  People’s  Government,  also  has  the  power  to  conduct  relevant 
external  affairs  on  its  own.  This  shows  that  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region will enjoy extensive autonomy. 

Regarding  the  executive  power,  the  draft  law,  while  stipulating 
that  the  Special  Administrative  Region  shall,  on  its  own,  conduct  the 
administrative affairs of Hong Kong in accordance with the Basic Law, 
specifically  defines  the  Special  Administrative  Region’s  autonomy  in 

134 

 
areas such as finance, economy, industry and commerce, trade, transport 
and  communications,  development  and  management  of  land  and 
natural  resources,  education,  science  and  technology,  culture,  sports, 
public  order  and  control  of  entry  and  exit  activities.  For  instance,  the 
draft  law  stipulates  that  the  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  have 
independent finances, its revenues shall not be handed over to the Central 
Government,  and  the  Central  Government  shall  not  levy  taxes  in  the 
Region; and the Special Administrative Region may, on its own, formulate 
monetary and financial policies, the Hong Kong dollar shall be the legal 
tender  in  the  Region,  and  the  authority  to  issue  Hong  Kong  currency 
shall be vested in the Special Administrative Region Government. Also, 
the  draft  stipulates  that  representatives  of  the  Special  Administrative 
Region  Government  may  act  as  members  of  delegations  of  the  Chinese 
Government  to  participate  in  negotiations  at  the  diplomatic  level 
affecting Hong Kong; the Special Administrative Region may on its own, 
using  the  name  “Hong  Kong,  China,”  maintain  and  develop  relations 
and conclude and implement agreements with foreign states and regions 
and relevant international organizations in economic, trade, financial and 
monetary, shipping, communications, tourism, cultural, sports and other 
appropriate fields. 

Regarding the legislative power, the draft stipulates that laws enacted 
by  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  legislature  shall  take 
effect  upon  the  signature  and  promulgation  by  the  Chief  Executive. 
The  laws  shall  be  reported  to  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing 
Committee  for  the  record,  but  they  will  go  into  force  without  being 
affected  by  this  reporting.  The  draft  also  stipulates  that  only  when  it 
considers  that  any  law  enacted  by  the  Special  Administrative  Region 
legislature  is  not  in  conformity  with  the  provisions  of  the  Basic  Law 
regarding  affairs  within  the  responsibility  of  the  Central  Authorities 
or  regarding  the  relationship  between  the  Central  Authorities  and  the 
Region, shall the National People’s Congress Standing Committee return 
the law in question; the Standing Committee shall not amend it. Any law 
returned  by  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing  Committee  shall 
immediately be invalidated. These stipulations not only conform with the 
“one  country,  two  systems”  principle  and  are  in  line  with  provisions  of 
the Constitution, but also take into full consideration the need for Hong 
Kong to enjoy a high degree of autonomy. 

135 

 
 
 
According  to  the  Constitution,  interpretation  of  laws  is  among 
the  powers  and  functions  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing 
Committee.  To  take  into  account  Hong  Kong’s  special  circumstances, 
the draft Basic Law, while stipulating that the power of interpretation of 
the Basic Law shall be vested in the National People’s Congress Standing 
Committee,  provides  that  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing 
Committee  shall  authorizes  the  courts  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region to interpret on their own, in adjudicating cases, the 
provisions of the Basic Law which are within the limits of the autonomy 
of the Region. This stipulation will guarantee the power of the National 
People’s Congress Standing Committee and also facilitate the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  in  exercising  its  autonomy.  According 
to  the  draft,  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  courts 
may  also  interpret  other  provisions  of  the  Basic  Law  in  adjudicating 
cases. However, if the courts, in adjudicating cases, need to interpret the 
provisions of the Basic Law concerning affairs which are the responsibility 
of  the  Central  People’s  Government,  or  the  relationship  between  the 
Central Authorities and the Region, and if such interpretation will affect 
their final judgements on the cases, the courts shall seek an interpretation 
of the relevant provisions from the National People’s Congress Standing 
Committee  through  the  Court  of  Final  Appeal  of  the  Region.  The 
courts,  in  applying  those  provisions,  shall  follow  the  interpretation  of 
the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing  Committee.  This  stipulation 
will  provide  the  basis  for  the  Region’s  courts,  in  adjudicating  cases,  to 
comprehend the provisions of the Basic Law concerning affairs which are 
the responsibility of the Central Government or the relationship between 
the  Central  Authorities  and  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region, and prevent the courts from making erroneous judgements due 
to inaccurate understanding. 

The draft vests the courts of the Special Administrative Region with 
independent  judicial  power,  including  that  of  final  adjudication.  This  is 
certainly a very special situation wherein courts in a local administrative 
region enjoy the power of final adjudication. Nevertheless, in view of the 
fact that Hong Kong will practise social and legal systems different from 
the  mainland’s,  this  provision  is  necessary.  Under  the  current  judicial 
system  and  principles,  the  Hong  Kong  authorities  have  never  exercised 
jurisdiction over acts of state such as defence and foreign affairs. While 

136 

 
 
 
preserving  the  above  principle,  the  draft  stipulates  that  the  courts  of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall obtain a certificate 
from  the  Chief  Executive  on  questions  of  fact  concerning  acts  of  state 
such  as  defence  and  foreign  affairs  wherever  such  questions  arise  in  the 
adjudication  of  cases.  This  certificate  shall  be  binding  on  the  courts. 
However,  before  issuing  such  a  certificate,  the  Chief  Executive  shall 
obtain  a  certifying  document  from  the  Central  People’s  Government. 
This stipulation not only appropriately solves the question of jurisdiction 
over acts of state, but also guarantees that the courts of the Region can 
conduct their functions in a normal way. 

In  addition,  in  order  to  enable  the  National  People’s  Congress 
Standing  Committee  to  heed  fully  the  opinions  of  the  people  from  all 
walks  of  life  in  Hong  Kong  when  it  makes  decisions  on  whether  a  law 
enacted  by  the  Special  Administrative  Region  legislature  conforms  to 
the provisions concerning affairs within the responsibility of the Central 
Authorities or to the provisions concerning the relationship between the 
Central Authorities and the Special Administrative Region, decisions on 
adding to or deleting from the list of national laws which are applicable 
in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  Annex  III  and 
decisions on the interpretation of and amendment to the Basic Law, the 
drafters  have  recommended  that  when  the  Basic  Law  comes  into  force, 
a  working  committee  be  set  up  under  the  National  People’s  Congress 
Standing  Committee  to  submit  its  views  regarding  the  above  questions 
to  the  National  People’s  Congress  Standing  Committee.  The  working 
committee  shall  be  composed  of  people  from  the  mainland  and  Hong 
Kong. To this end, the Hong Kong Basic Law Drafting Committee has 
drafted  the  “Proposal  by  the  Drafting  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  on  the  Establishment 
of  the  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  under  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s Congress.” 

III.  On the Fundamental Rights and Duties of Hong Kong Residents 

The  extensive  rights  and  freedoms  enjoyed  by  the  residents  of  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and other people residing in 
the  Region  as  prescribed  in  Chapter  III  of  the  draft  Basic  Law  include 

137 

 
political,  economic,  cultural,  social  and  family  rights  and  freedoms  and 
the freedom of person. The special features in the provisions concerning 
Hong  Kong  residents’  rights  and  freedoms  in  the  draft  Basic  Law  boil 
down to the following two basic points: 

(1)  The  draft  provides  multi-level  protection  for  Hong  Kong 
residents’ rights and freedoms. In accordance with the characteristics of 
the composition of Hong Kong residents, the draft stipulates not only the 
general  rights  and  freedoms  enjoyed  by  Hong  Kong  residents,  but  also 
the  rights  of  the  permanent  residents  and  Chinese  citizens  living  among 
them. It also stipulates that people other than Hong Kong residents also 
enjoy the rights and freedoms of Hong Kong residents in accordance with 
the  law.  In  addition,  while  stipulating  in  explicit  terms  the  fundamental 
rights  and  freedoms  of  Hong  Kong  residents,  the  draft  also  stipulates 
that  Hong  Kong  residents  shall  enjoy  the  other  rights  and  freedoms 
safeguarded  by  the  laws  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region.  In  view  of  the  application  in  Hong  Kong  of  the  International 
Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights,  the  International  Covenant 
on  Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights,  and  international  labour 
conventions,  the  draft  stipulates  that  those  provisions  shall  remain  in 
force and be implemented through the laws of the Special Administrative 
Region.  In  addition  to  a  chapter  specially  devoted  to  Hong  Kong 
residents’  rights  and  freedoms,  there  are  also  provisions  concerning 
the  issue  in  other  relevant  chapters  and  articles.  Thus,  extensive, 
comprehensive  and  multi-level  protection  is  provided  for  safeguarding 
Hong Kong residents’ rights and freedoms. 

(2)  The  rights,  freedoms  and  duties  of  Hong  Kong  residents  are 
prescribed in the draft in accordance with the principle of “one country, 
two  systems”  and  in  the  light  of  Hong  Kong’s  actual  situation.  They 
include  such  specific  provisions  as  protection  of  private  ownership 
of  property,  the  freedom  of  movement  and  freedom  to  enter  or  leave 
the  Region,  the  right  to  raise  a  family  freely  and  protection  of  private 
persons’  and  legal  entities’  property.  The  draft  also  provides  that  the 
systems to safeguard the fundamental rights and freedoms of Hong Kong 
residents shall all be based on the Basic Law. 

138 

 
 
 
 
IV.  On the Political Structure 

Chapter  IV  of  the  draft  Basic  Law  mainly  defines  the  formation 
and  powers  of  and  inter-relationship  among  the  executive,  legislature 
and  judiciary,  as  well  as  the  qualifications,  powers  and  functions  of 
and  relevant  policies  regarding  the  Chief  Executive,  principal  officials, 
members of the executive and legislative councils, judges of the courts at 
all levels and other members of the judiciary, and public servants of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. It also provides that district 
organizations which are not organs of political power may be established 
in the Region. 

The  political  structure  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  should  accord  with  the  principle  of  “one  country,  two  systems” 
and aim to maintain stability and prosperity in Hong Kong in line with 
its  legal  status  and  actual  situation.  To  this  end,  consideration  must  be 
given to the interests of the different sectors of society and the structure 
must facilitate the development of the capitalist economy in the Region. 
While the part of the existing political structure proven to be effective will 
be maintained, a democratic system that suits Hong Kong’s reality should 
gradually  be  introduced.  In  accordance  with  this  principle,  Chapter 
IV  and  Annexes  I  and  II  of  the  Basic  Law  contain  the  following  major 
provisions  concerning  the  political  structure  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region: 

(1)  The  relationship  between  the  executive  authorities  and  the 
legislature.  The  executive  authorities  and  the  legislature  should  regulate 
each  other  as  well  as  co-ordinate  their  activities.  To  maintain  Hong 
Kong’s  stability  and  administrative  efficiency,  the  Chief  Executive  must 
have  real  power  which,  at  the  same  time,  should  be  subject  to  some 
restrictions. The draft provides for the Chief Executive to be the head of 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  accountable  to  the 
Central People’s Government and the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region.  He  or  she  is  to  lead  the  government  of  the  Region,  sign  bills 
and budgets and promulgate laws. If the Chief Executive considers a bill 
passed  by  the  Legislative  Council  to  be  not  compatible  with  the  overall 
interests of the Region, he or she may return it to the Legislative Council 
for  reconsideration.  If  the  Chief  Executive  refuses  to  sign  a  bill  passed 

139 

 
 
 
 
 
the  second  time  by  the  Legislative  Council,  or  the  Legislative  Council 
refuses  to  pass  a  budget  or  any  other  important  bill  introduced  by  the 
government, and if consensus still cannot be reached after consultations, 
the  Chief  Executive  may  dissolve  the  Legislative  Council.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  Basic  Law  provides  that  the  government  of  the  Region  must 
abide by the law and be accountable to the Legislative Council. It must 
implement  laws  passed  by  the  Legislative  Council  and  already  in  force, 
present regular policy addresses to the Council, answer questions raised 
by  members  of  the  Council  and  obtain  approval  from  the  Council  for 
taxation  and  public  expenditure.  The  Chief  Executive  must  consult  the 
Executive Council before making important policy decisions, introducing 
bills  to  the  Legislative  Council,  enacting  subordinate  legislation,  or 
dissolving  the  Legislative  Council.  The  Basic  Law  also  stipulates  that  if 
the bill returned by the Chief Executive is passed again by the Legislative 
Council  with  at  least  a  two-thirds  majority,  the  Chief  Executive  must 
sign and promulgate it within one month, unless he or she dissolves the 
Legislative  Council.  If  the  newly  elected  Legislative  Council,  after  the 
old  one  has  been  dissolved,  again  passes  by  a  two-thirds  majority  the 
original bill in dispute, or it still refuses to pass the original budget or any 
other important bill introduced by the government, the Chief Executive 
must resign. If the Chief Executive is found to have committed a serious 
breach of law or dereliction of duty and if he or she still refuses to resign, 
the Legislative Council may pass a motion of impeachment through the 
specified procedures and refer it to the Central People’s Government for 
decision.  The  provisions  mentioned  above  embody  the  relationship  of 
regulation  and  co-ordination  between  the  executive  authorities  and  the 
legislature. 

(2)  The method for the selection of the Chief Executive. The draft 
stipulates that the Chief Executive shall be selected by election or through 
consultations  and  be  appointed  by  the  Central  People’s  Government. 
The method for selecting the Chief Executive shall be worked out in the 
light of the actual situation in Hong Kong and applied in a gradual and 
orderly  way.  The  ultimate  goal  is  the  selection  of  the  Chief  Executive 
by  universal  suffrage  upon  nomination  by  a  broadly  representative 
nominating  committee  in  accordance  with  democratic  procedures. 
Based  on  these  provisions,  Annex  I  provides  specific  rules  on  selecting 
the  Chief  Executive.  In  the  ten  years  between  1997  and  2007,  the  Chief 

140 

 
 
Executive will be elected by a broadly representative election committee. 
If  there  is  need  to  amend  this  method  of  election  after  that  period, 
such  amendments  must  be  made  with  the  endorsement  of  a  two-thirds 
majority  of  all  the  members  of  the  Legislative  Council  and  the  consent 
of  the  Chief  Executive,  and  they  must  be  submitted  to  the  Standing 
Committee of the National People’s Congress for approval. The method 
for selecting the Chief Executive is provided in an annex to make it more 
amenable to revision when necessary. 

(3)  The  method  for  forming  the  Legislative  Council  and  its 
procedures for voting on bills and motions. According to the draft Basic 
Law, the Legislative Council will be constituted by election. The method 
for forming the Legislative Council will be worked out in the light of the 
actual situation in Hong Kong and applied in a gradual and orderly way. 
The  ultimate  goal  is  the  election  of  all  the  members  of  the  Legislative 
Council by universal suffrage. In accordance with these provisions, Annex 
II  provides  specific  rules  on  formation  of  the  Legislative  Council.  The 
first and second Legislative Council will be formed by members elected by 
functional constituencies, by the Election Committee or by geographical 
constituencies through direct elections. During the first 10 years after the 
Special Administrative Region is established, the number of seats in the 
Legislative  Council  for  members  elected  by  geographical  constituencies 
through direct elections will be increased with each passing council, and 
the number of seats elected by the Election Committee will be gradually 
reduced. When the third Legislative Council is formed, members elected 
by  functional  constituencies  and  geographical  constituencies  through 
direct  elections  will  each  share  half  the  seats  of  the  Legislative  Council. 
These  rules  accord  with  the  principle  of  developing  the  election  system 
in  a  gradual  and  orderly  way.  Annex  II  also  stipulates  that  different 
voting procedures shall be adopted by the Legislative Council in handling 
bills  introduced  by  the  government  and  motions  and  bills  introduced 
by  individual  members  of  the  Legislative  Council.  The  passage  of  bills 
introduced  by  the  government  requires  a  simple  majority  vote  of  the 
members of the Legislative Council present. The passage of motions, bills 
or amendments to government bills introduced by individual members of 
the Legislative Council requires at least a simple majority vote by each of 
the two groups of members present, i.e., members returned by functional 
constituencies and those returned by geographical constituencies through 

141 

 
 
 
 
direct elections and by the Election Committee. Such provisions take into 
consideration  the  interests  of  all  social  strata  and  will  prevent  endless 
debates  over  government  bills,  thus  helping  the  government  work  with 
efficiency. Ten years after the establishment of the Special Administrative 
Region,  if  there  is  a  need  to  improve  the  method  for  forming  the 
Legislative  Council  and  its  procedures  for  voting  on  bills  and  motions, 
such improvements shall be made with the endorsement of a two-thirds 
majority  of  all  the  members  of  the  Legislative  Council  and  the  consent 
of  the  Chief  Executive,  and  they  must  be  reported  to  the  Standing 
Committee of the National People’s Congress for the record. The method 
for  forming  the  Legislative  Council  and  the  Council’s  procedures  for 
voting on bills and motions are provided in an annex because it is more 
amenable to revision when necessary. 

(4)  Qualifications for the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region, members of the Executive Council, the President 
of the Legislative Council, principal government officials, the chief justice 
of  the  Court  of  Final  Appeal  and  the  chief  judges  of  the  High  Court, 
as  well  as  Hong  Kong  members  of  the  Basic  Law  Committee.  Relevant 
provisions in the draft Basic Law stipulate that these posts must be held 
by  Chinese  citizens  who  are  permanent  residents  of  the  Region  with  no 
right of abode in any foreign country. This helps define state sovereignty 
and  reflects  the  principle  of  managing  Hong  Kong  by  the  Hong  Kong 
people. Only in this way can those maintaining the posts mentioned above 
hold themselves responsible to the State, the Region and the residents of 
Hong Kong. Based on the same considerations, relevant articles stipulate 
that  the  Region’s  Legislative  Council  must  be  composed  of  Chinese 
citizens  who  are  permanent  residents  of  the  Region  with  no  right  of 
abode in any foreign country. However, in view of Hong Kong’s specific 
conditions,  permanent  residents  of  the  Region  who  are  not  of  Chinese 
nationality or who have the right of abode in foreign countries may also 
be  elected  members  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Region,  provided 
that the proportion of such members does not exceed 20 per cent of the 
total membership of the Council. 

(5)  The  method  for  the  formation  of  the  first  Government  and 
the  first  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region. In line with the principles of state sovereignty and for the benefit 

142 

 
 
 
 
of  smooth  transition,  the  establishment  of  the  Special  Administrative 
Region will be presided over by a Preparatory Committee set up by the 
National  People’s  Congress.  Since  preparations  must  be  made  before 
the  establishment  of  the  first  Government  and  the  first  Legislative 
Council and since the Basic Law will not go into effect until 1 July 1997, 
the  Drafting  Committee  has  suggested  that  the  National  People’s 
Congress  make  a  special  decision  on  the  method  for  the  formation  of 
the  first  Government  and  Legislative  Council  and  that  the  decision  be 
made  public  together  with  the  Basic  Law.  The  Drafting  Committee  has 
therefore  worked  out  a  draft  of  the  decision  on  behalf  of  the  National 
People’s Congress. According to this decision, the candidate for the first 
Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  will 
be  recommended  by  a  selection  committee  composed  entirely  of  Hong 
Kong  residents  and  then  referred  to  the  Central  People’s  Government 
for  appointment.  If  the  composition  of  the  last  Hong  Kong  Legislative 
Council  before  the  establishment  of  the  Special  Administrative  Region 
is  in  conformity  with  the  provisions  of  the  decision  made  by  the 
National People’s Congress on the method for the formation of the first 
Government and the first Legislative Council, those of its members who 
uphold  the  Basic  Law  and  pledge  allegiance  to  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  and  who  meet  the  requirements  set  forth  in  the 
Basic  Law  may,  upon  confirmation  by  the  Preparatory  Committee, 
become  members  of  the  first  Legislative  Council  of  the  Region.  This 
arrangement  is  designed  to  ensure  stability  throughout  the  transition 
period and make the two governments dovetail without a hitch. 

According to the decision, when assuming office, the Chief Executive, 
principal officials, members of the Executive Council and the Legislative 
Council,  judges  of  the  courts  at  all  levels  and  other  members  of  the 
judiciary must swear to uphold the Basic Law and swear allegiance to the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China. 

V.  On  Economy,  Education,  Science,  Culture,  Sports,  Religion, 

Labour and Social Services 

Chapter  V  of  the  Basic  Law  contains  stipulations  on  the  economic 
system  and  policies  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region, 

143 

 
 
divided  into  eight  fields  of  endeavour:  public  finance,  monetary  affairs, 
trade, industry, commerce, land leases, shipping and civil aviation. These 
stipulations are indispensable to ensuring the normal operation of Hong 
Kong’s  capitalist  economic  mechanism  and  maintaining  its  status  as  an 
international financial centre and free port. Concerning monetary affairs, 
for  instance,  the  draft  Basic  Law  stipulates  that  no  foreign  exchange 
control policies shall be applied in the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  and  that  markets  for  foreign  exchange,  gold,  securities,  futures 
and  the  like  shall  continue.  The  free  flow  of  capital  within,  into  and 
out  of  Region  as  well  as  the  free  operation  of  financial  businesses  and 
financial markets are safeguarded. It also stipulates that the Hong Kong 
dollar is the legal tender in the Region and shall be freely convertible and 
that  the  authority  for  its  issuance  shall  be  vested  in  the  Government  of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. As for foreign trade, the 
draft  Basic  Law  stipulates  that  all  investments  from  outside  the  Region 
shall  be  protected  by  law,  and  the  free  movement  of  goods,  intangible 
assets  and  capital  shall  be  safeguarded.  Unless  otherwise  prescribed 
by  law,  no  tariff  shall  be  imposed.  As  a  separate  customs  territory,  the 
Region may, using the name “Hong Kong, China,” participate in relevant 
international organizations and trade agreements (including preferential 
trade  arrangements),  such  as  the  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and 
Trade and arrangements regarding international trade in textiles. Export 
quotas,  tariff  preferences  and  other  similar  arrangements  obtained  or 
made by the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall be enjoyed 
exclusively  by  the  Region.  The  draft  Basic  Law  also  stipulates  that  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall strive to achieve a fiscal 
balance  and  avoid  deficits  in  drawing  up  its  budget.  The  Region  may 
also  enact  laws  on  its  own  concerning  the  taxation  system,  using  the 
previously pursued low tax policy as reference. The draft Basic Law also 
carries  detailed  stipulations  concerning  the  major  trades,  land  leases, 
shipping, civil aviation and the like. 

Chapter  VI  of  the  draft  Basic  Law  carries  stipulations  on  the 
maintenance  and  development  of  Hong  Kong’s  current  systems  and 
policies  concerning  education,  science,  culture,  sports,  religion,  labour 
and social services. These stipulations involve the interests of Hong Kong 
residents  in  many  aspects  of  public  life  and  are  important  for  social 
stability and development. 

144 

 
 
 
There are quite a number of articles concerning policies in Chapter V 
and VI of the draft Basic Law. The Chinese Government has undertaken, 
in  the  Sino-British  Joint  Declaration,  to  write  its  basic  principles  and 
policies on Hong Kong and their detailed explanations as given in Annex 
I  of  the  Joint  Declaration  into  Basic  Law,  and  Hong  Kong  residents 
from  all  walks  of  life  have  a  strong  desire  for  the  Basic  Law  to  reflect 
and protect their interests. Therefore, it was decided in the end that these 
articles concerning policies should remain in the draft Basic Law, despite 
the  differing  opinions  expressed  over  the  brevity  of  articles  during  the 
drafting of the law. 

Finally, I should like to explain a few points about the draft designs 
of  the  regional  flag  and  regional  emblem  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region. The regional flag carries a design of five bauhinia 
petals, each with a star in the middle, on a red background. The red flag 
represents  the  motherland  and  the  bauhinia  represents  Hong  Kong. 
The design implies that Hong Kong is an inalienable part of China and 
prospers in the embrace of the motherland. The five stars on the flower 
symbolize the fact that all Hong Kong compatriots love their motherland, 
while  the  red  and  white  colours  embody  the  principle  of  “one  country, 
two  systems.”  The  regional  emblem  is  round  and  bears  a  design  similar 
to the one on the flag, with five red stars on a white bauhinia against a 
red  background,  which  also  symbolizes  the  principle  of  “one  country, 
two systems” by the use of red and white. The outer ring of the emblem 
carries  the  words  “Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s Republic of China” in Chinese, and “HONG KONG” in English. 

Fellow Deputies, 

I hereby present my explanations concerning “The Basic Law of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China (Draft),” its annexes and other relevant documents and concerning 
the  draft  designs  of  the  regional  flag  and  regional  emblem  of  the 
Special  Administrative  Region,  to  the  National  People’s  Congress  for 
examination. 

Note: 
*  This is an English translation of the original instrument in Chinese and is published for 

information. 

145 

 
   
Instrument 7 

* Decision of the National People’s Congress on the 
Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
of the People’s Republic of China 

(Adopted at the Third Session of the Seventh National 
People’s Congress on 4 April 1990) 

The Third Session of the Seventh National People’s Congress adopts 
the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s Republic of China, including Annex I: Method for the Selection 
of the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, 
Annex  II:  Method  for  the  Formation  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  Its  Voting  Procedures, 
Annex  III:  National  Laws  to  be  Applied  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region, and the designs of the regional flag and regional 
emblem  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region.  Article  31 
of  the  Constitution  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  provides:  “The 
State  may  establish  special  administrative  regions  when  necessary. 
The  systems  to  be  instituted  in  special  administrative  regions  shall  be 
prescribed by law enacted by the National People’s Congress in the light 
of  the  specific  conditions.”  The  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  is  constitutional  as  it  is  enacted  in  accordance 
with the Constitution of the People’s Republic of China and in the light 
of  the  specific  conditions  of  Hong  Kong.  The  systems,  policies  and 
laws  to  be  instituted  after  the  establishment  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  shall  be  based  on  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region. 

The Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of 

the People’s Republic of China shall be put into effect as of July 1, 1997. 

Note: 
*  This English translation text is reproduced from “The Laws of the People’s Republic 
of China 1990-1992” compiled by the Legislative Affairs Commission of the Standing 
Committee of the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China. It is for 
reference purposes and has no legislative effect. 

146 

   
 
 
Instrument 8 

* Decision of the National People’s Congress 
on the Establishment of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 

(Adopted at the Third Session of the Seventh National 
People’s Congress on 4 April 1990) 

In accordance with the provisions of Article 31 and sub-paragraph 13 
of Article 62 of the Constitution of the People’s Republic of China, the 
Third Session of the Seventh National People’s Congress decides: 

1.  The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 

is  to  be 

established on July 1, 1997. 

**2.  The area of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region covers 
the  Hong  Kong  Island,  the  Kowloon  Peninsula,  and  the  islands  and 
adjacent  waters  under  its  jurisdiction.  The  map  of  the  administrative 
division  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  will  be 
published by the State Council separately. 

Note: 
*  This English translation text is reproduced from “The Laws of the People’s Republic 
of China 1990-1992” compiled by the Legislative Affairs Commission of the Standing 
Committee of the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China. It is for 
reference purposes and has no legislative effect. 
**  See  Order  of  the  State  Council  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  No.  221  (see 

Instrument 9) 

147 

 
 
   
 
 
   
 
* Order of the State Council 
of the People’s Republic of China No. 221 

Instrument 9 

It  is  hereby  promulgated  that  in  accordance  with  the  Decision  of 
the  National  People’s  Congress  on  the  Establishment  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  adopted  at  the  Third  Session  of 
the Seventh National People’s Congress on 4 April 1990, the map of the 
administrative division of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  was  approved  at  the  56th  Executive 
Meeting of the State Council on 7 May 1997. 

Appendix: Description of the boundary of the administrative division of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s 
Republic of China 

LI Peng 
Premier 
1 July 1997 

148 

 
Appendix 

Description of the Boundary of the Administrative Division 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
of the People’s Republic of China 

The boundary comprises a land and sea sector. 

I.  The Land Sector 

The land sector comprises three sections as follows: 

(1)  Sha Tau Kok Town 

1.  The  boundary  starts  at  the  eastern  corner  of  the  base  of  the 
Sha  Tau  Kok  pier  (“Point  1”,  Latitude  22˚32'37.21"  North,  Longitude 
114˚13'34.85"  East).  From  there,  it  runs  directly  to  the  mouth  of  the 
ditch  running  along  the  eastern  side  of  San  Lau  Street.  It  then  follows 
the centre line of the ditch, as far as the point where that line meets the 
centre line of Chung Ying Street (“Point 2”, Latitude 22˚32'45.42" North, 
Longitude 114˚13'32.40" East). 

2.  From Point 2, the boundary follows the centre line of Chung Ying 
Street  as  far  as  the  point  where  that  line  meets  the  centre  line  of  Bubu 
Street (“Point 3”, Latitude 22˚32'52.26" North, Longitude 114˚13'36.91” 
East). 

3.  From Point 3, the boundary follows a straight line to the western 
tip  of  the  base  of  the  foundation  of  Sha  Tau  Kok  River  Bridge  in  the 
middle  of  the  river  (“Point  4”,  Latitude  22˚32'52.83"  North,  Longitude 
114˚13’36.86" East). 

(2)  Sha Tau Kok Town to Pak Kung Au 

From  Point  4,  the  boundary  runs  upstream  along  the  centre  line 
of  the  Sha  Tau  Kok  River  and  thence  along  the  bottom  line  of  the 
valley east of Pak Kung Au until it reaches the middle of the Pak Kung 
Au  saddle  point  (“Point  5”,  Latitude  22˚33'23.49"  North,  Longitude 
114˚12'24.25" East). 

149 

 
 
 
 
 
 
(3)  Pak Kung Au to the Mouth of the Shenzhen River 

The boundary runs from Point 5 along the bottom line of the main 
valley west of Pak Kung Au as far as the source of the Shenzhen River at 
Pak Kung Au. It continues along the centre line of the Shenzhen River to 
the mouth of the river at Shenzhen Bay (otherwise known as Deep Bay). 

After  the  realignment  of  the  Shenzhen  River,  the  boundary  will 

follow the new centre line of the river. 

II.  The Sea Sector 

The sea sector comprises three sections as follows: 

(1)  Shenzhen Bay 

From the mouth of the Shenzhen River, the boundary runs along the 
middle of the southern navigable channel as far as Beacon 84 (otherwise 
known  as  “B”  Beacon)  (“Point  6”,  Latitude  22˚30'36.23"  North, 
Longitude  113˚59'42.20"  East).  From  there,  it  follows  straight  lines  in 
sequence through the following two points: 

1.  Beacon  83  (otherwise  known  as  “A”  Beacon)  in  Shenzhen  Bay 
(“Point 7”, Latitude 22˚28'20.49" North, Longitude 113˚56'52.10" East); 
and 

2.  “Point  8”,  (Latitude  22˚25'43.7"  North,  Longitude  113˚52'08.8" 
East),  defined  as  the  point  where  the  line  between  Point  7  and 
Dongjiaozui at the southernmost tip of Neilingding Island intersects the 
meridian line of Longitude 113˚52'08.8" East. 

(2)  Southern Sea Section 

From  Point  8,  the  boundary  follows  a  series  of  straight  lines 

sequentially through the following thirteen points: 

1.  The  boundary  first  runs  southwards  along  the  meridian  line  of 
Longitude 113˚52'08.8" East until it reaches Latitude 22˚20' North (“Point 

150 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9”,  Latitude  22˚20'  North,  Longitude  113˚52'08.8"  East).  The  boundary 
runs thence in sequence to: 

2.  “Point  10”  (Latitude  22˚16'23.2"  North,  Longitude  113˚50'50.6" 
East),  defined  as  the  point  one  nautical  mile  northwest  of  the  most 
northerly point on the coastline of Tai O; 

3.  “Point  11”  (Latitude  22˚16'03.8"  North,  Longitude  113˚50'20.4" 
East),  defined  as  the  point  one  nautical  mile  northwest  of  the  most 
westerly point on the coastline of Tai O; 

4.  “Point  12”  (Latitude  22˚14'21.4"  North,  Longitude  113˚49'35.0" 
East), defined as the point one nautical mile northwest of the tip of the 
protruding point on the Lantau coastline southwest of Kai Kung Shan; 

5.  “Point  13”  (Latitude  22˚13'01.4"  North,  Longitude  113˚49'01.6" 
East),  defined  as  the  point  one  nautical  mile  west  of  the  most  westerly 
point on Kai Yet Kok off Lantau Island; 

6.  “Point  14”  (Latitude  22˚11'01.9"  North,  Longitude  113˚49'56.6" 
East),  defined  as  the  point  one  nautical  mile  southwest  of  the  most 
southwesterly point on the coastline at Fan Lau Kok on Lantau Island; 

7.  “Point  15”  (Latitude  22˚08'33.1"  North,  Longitude  113˚53'47.6" 
East),  defined  as  the  mid-point  of  a  straight  line  between  the  most 
southerly point on the coastline of Tai A Chau in the Soko Islands and 
the tip of the protruding point at Yinjiaozui on the northern coastline of 
Dazhizhou; 

8.  “Point  16”  (Latitude  22˚08'12.2"  North,  Longitude  113˚55'20.6" 
East), defined as the point one nautical mile south of the most southerly 
point on the coastline of Tau Lo Chau in the Soko Islands; 

9.  “Point  17”  (Latitude  22˚08'54.5"  North,  Longitude  113˚56'22.4" 
East), defined as the eastern point of intersection between the parallel of 
Latitude 22˚08'54.5" North and an arc sector of one nautical mile radius 
centred on the most southerly point on the coastline of Tau Lo Chau in 
the Soko Islands; 

151 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  “Point  18”  (Latitude  22˚08'54.5"  North,  Longitude  114˚14'09.6" 
East), defined as the western point of intersection between the parallel of 
Latitude 22˚08'54.5" North and an arc sector of one nautical mile radius 
centred on the most southwesterly point on the coastline of Mat Chau in 
the Po Toi Islands; 

11.  “Point  19”  (Latitude  22˚08'18.8"  North,  Longitude  114˚15'18.6" 
East), defined as the point one nautical mile due south of Nam Kok Tsui 
on Po Toi Island; 

12.  “Point  20”  (Latitude  22˚08'54.5"  North,  Longitude  114˚17'02.4" 
East),  defined  as  the  eastern  point  of  intersection  between  the  parallel 
of  Latitude  22˚08'54.5"  North  and  an  arc  sector  of  one  nautical  mile 
radius centred on the most southeasterly point at Tai Kok Tau on Po Toi 
Island; 

13.  “Point  21”,  defined  by  the  coordinates  Latitude  22˚08'54.5" 

North, Longitude 114˚30'08.8" East. 

(3)  Mirs Bay 

From  Point  21,  the  boundary  then  runs  in  sequential  straight  lines 

through the following ten points, then back to Point 1: 

1.  “Point 22”, defined by the coordinates Latitude 22˚21'54.5" North, 

Longitude 114˚30'08.8" East; 

2.  “Point  23”  (Latitude  22˚28'07.4"  North,  Longitude  114˚27'17.6" 
East),  defined  as  the  mid-point  of  a  straight  line  between  the  tip  of  the 
protruding  point  on  the  coastline  north  of  Daluwan  and  the  beacon  on 
Shek Ngau Chau; 

3.  “Point  24”  (Latitude  22˚32'41.9"  North,  Longitude  114˚27'18.5" 
East),  defined  as  the  mid-point  of  a  straight  line  between  the  tip  of  the 
protruding point on the coastline southwest of Shuitousha and Kang Lau 
Shek on Ping Chau Island; 

152 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  “Point  25”  (Latitude  22˚33'43.2"  North,  Longitude  114˚26'02.3" 
East),  defined  as  the  mid-point  of  a  straight  line  between  Chengtoujiao 
and Chau Mei Kok on Ping Chau Island; 

5.  “Point  26”  (Latitude  22˚34'06.0"  North,  Longitude  114˚19'58.7" 
East),  defined  as  the  mid-point  of  a  straight  line  between  the  tip  of  the 
protruding  point  on  the  coastline  at  Beizaijiao  and  the  most  northerly 
point on the coastline of Round Island;

  6.  “Point  27”  (Latitude  22˚34'00.0"  North,  Longitude  114˚18'32.7" 
East),  defined  as  the  mid-point  of  a  straight  line  between  the  tip  of  the 
protruding point on the coastline at Zhengjiaozui and the most easterly 
point on the coastline at Kai Kung Tau on Crooked Island; 

7.  “Point  28”  (Latitude  22˚33'55.8"  North,  Longitude  114˚16'33.7" 
East),  defined  as  the  mid-point  of  a  straight  line  between  the  tip  of 
the  protruding  point  on  the  coastline  at  Tangyuanchong  and  the  most 
northerly point on the coastline of Crooked Island; 

8.  “Point  29”  (Latitude  22˚33'20.6"  North,  Longitude  114˚14'55.2" 
East), defined as the mid-point of a straight line between the point where 
the stream south of Enshang meets the sea and Cheung Pai Tau; 

9.  “Point  30”  (Latitude  22˚33'02.6"  North,  Longitude  114˚14'13.4" 
East), defined as the mid-point of a straight line between the point where 
the stream at Guanluxia meets the sea and Sam Kuk Tsui; and 

10.  “Point  31”  (Latitude  22˚32'37.2"  North,  Longitude  114˚14'01.1" 
East),  defined  as  the  mid-point  of  a  straight  line  running  due  east  from 
Point 1 to the opposite shoreline. 

Note:  The  above  geographical  co-ordinates  are  represented  by 

WGS84. 

Note: 
*  This English translation text is prepared by Security Bureau, Government of the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region. It is for reference purposes and has no legislative 
effect. 

153 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
THE MAP OF THE HONG KONG SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGION 
OF THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

1:500 000 

154 

 
Instrument 10 

* Decision of the National People’s Congress 
on the Method for the Formation of the First 
Government and the First Legislative Council of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 

(Adopted at the Third Session of the Seventh National 
People’s Congress on 4 April 1990) 

1.  The  first  Government  and  the  first  Legislative  Council  of  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall be formed in accordance 
with the principles of State sovereignty and smooth transition. 

2.  Within  the  year  1996,  the  National  People’s  Congress  shall 
establish  a  Preparatory  Committee  for  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region,  which  shall  be  responsible  for  preparing  the 
establishment of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and shall 
prescribe the specific method for the formation of the first Government 
and  the  first  Legislative  Council  in  accordance  with  this  Decision.  The 
Preparatory  Committee  shall  be  composed  of  mainland  members  and 
of  Hong  Kong  members  who  shall  constitute  not  less  than  50  per  cent 
of its membership. Its chairman and members shall be appointed by the 
Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress. 

3.  The  Preparatory  Committee  for  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
the 
Administrative  Region 
establishment  of  the  Selection  Committee  for  the  First  Government  of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (hereinafter referred to as 
the Selection Committee). 

for  preparing 

responsible 

shall  be 

The  Selection  Committee  shall  be  composed  entirely  of  permanent 
residents  of  Hong  Kong  and  must  be  broadly  representative.  It  shall 
include  Hong  Kong  deputies  to  the  National  People’s  Congress, 
representatives  of  Hong  Kong  members  of  the  National  Committee 
of  the  Chinese  People’s  Political  Consultative  Conference,  persons 
with  practical  experience  who  have  served  in  Hong  Kong’s  executive, 
legislative  and  advisory  organs  prior  to  the  establishment  of  the  Hong 

155 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  and  persons  representative  of 
various strata and sectors of society. 

The  Selection  Committee  shall  be  composed  of  400  members  in  the 

following proportions: 

Industrial, commercial and financial sectors 
The professions 
Labour, grass-roots, religious and other sectors 
Former political figures, Hong Kong deputies to 

the National People’s Congress, and 
representatives of Hong Kong members of the 
National Committee of the Chinese People’s 
Political Consultative Conference 

25 per cent 
25 per cent 
25 per cent 

25 per cent 

4.  The  Selection  Committee  shall  recommend  the  candidate  for  the 
first Chief Executive through local consultations or through nomination 
and election after consultations, and report the recommended candidate 
to the Central People’s Government for appointment. The term of office 
of the first Chief Executive shall be the same as the regular term. 

5.  The  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  shall  be  responsible  for  preparing  the  formation  of  the  first 
Government of the Region in accordance with the Basic Law of the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region. 

6.  The  first  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  shall  be  composed  of  60  members,  with  20 
members  returned  by  geographical  constituencies  through  direct 
elections,  10  members  returned  by  an  election  committee,  and  30 
members  returned  by  functional  constituencies.  If  the  composition  of 
the  last  Hong  Kong  Legislative  Council  before  the  establishment  of 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  is  in  conformity  with 
the relevant provisions of this Decision and the Basic Law of the Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  those  of  its  members  who  uphold 
the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  and  pledge  allegiance  to  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  and 

156 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
who meet the requirements set forth in the Basic Law of the Region may, 
upon  confirmation  by  the  Preparatory  Committee,  become  members  of 
the first Legislative Council of the Region. 

The term of office of members of the first Legislative Council of the 

Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall be two years. 

Note: 
*  This English translation text is reproduced from “The Laws of the People’s Republic 
of China 1990-1992” compiled by the Legislative Affairs Commission of the Standing 
Committee of the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China. It is for 
reference purposes and has no legislative effect. 

157 

   
 
 
Instrument 11 

* Decision of the National People’s Congress Approving the 
Proposal by the Drafting Committee for the Basic Law of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the 
Establishment of the Committee for the Basic Law of the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region under the Standing 
Committee of the National People’s Congress 

(Adopted at the Third Session of the Seventh National 
People’s Congress on 4 April 1990) 

The Third Session of the Seventh National People’s Congress decides: 

1.  to  approve  the  proposal  by  the  Drafting  Committee  for  the 
Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  on  the 
Establishment  of  the  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  under  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
National People’s Congress; and 

2.  to establish the Committee for the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  under  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
National  People’s  Congress  when  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  is  put 
into effect. 

158 

 
 
Appendix 

Proposal by the Drafting Committee for the Basic Law 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
on the Establishment of the Committee for the Basic Law 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Under the 
Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress 

1.  Name:  The  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  under  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
National People’s Congress. 

2.  Affiliation:  To  be  a  working  committee  under  the  Standing 

Committee of the National People’s Congress. 

3.  Function: To study questions arising from the implementation of 
Articles 17, 18, 158 and 159 of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  and  submit  its  views  thereon  to  the  Standing 
Committee of the National People’s Congress. 

4.  Composition:  Twelve  members,  six  from  the  mainland  and  six 
from Hong Kong, including persons from the legal profession, appointed 
by the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress for a term 
of  office  of  five  years.  Hong  Kong  members  shall  be  Chinese  citizens 
who  are  permanent  residents  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  with  no  right  of  abode  in  any  foreign  country  and  shall  be 
nominated  jointly  by  the  Chief  Executive,  President  of  the  Legislative 
Council  and  Chief  Justice  of  the  Court  of  Final  Appeal  of  the  Region 
for  appointment  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s 
Congress. 

Note: 
*  This English translation text is reproduced from “The Laws of the People’s Republic 
of China 1990-1992” compiled by the Legislative Affairs Commission of the Standing 
Committee of the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China. It is for 
reference purposes and has no legislative effect. 

159 

 
 
 
 
   
 
 
Instrument 12 

* Decision of the Standing Committee of the National 
People’s Congress on the English Text of the Basic Law of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
People’s Republic of China 

(Adopted on 28 June 1990) 

The 14th Meeting of the Standing Committee of the Seventh National 
People’s  Congress  decides:  the  English  translation  of  the  Basic  Law  of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic 
of China, examined and approved under the aegis of the Law Committee 
of the National People’s Congress, shall be the official English text and 
shall be equally authentic as the Chinese text. In case of any discrepancy 
in the meaning of wording between the English text and the Chinese text, 
the Chinese text shall prevail. 

Note: 
*  This English translation text is reproduced from “The Laws of the People’s Republic 
of China 1990-1992” compiled by the Legislative Affairs Commission of the Standing 
Committee of the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China. It is for 
reference purposes and has no legislative effect. 

160 

 
   
 
 
Instrument 13 

* Explanations of Some Questions by the Standing 
Committee of the National People’s Congress Concerning the 
Implementation of the Nationality Law of the People’s 
Republic of China in the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region 

(Adopted at the Nineteenth Session of the Standing Committee of 
the Eighth National People’s Congress on 15 May 1996) 

According  to  Article  18  of  and  Annex  III  to  the  Basic  Law  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic 
of  China,  the  Nationality  Law  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  shall 
be  applied  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  from 
1  July  1997.  Taking  account  of  the  historical  background  and  the 
existing circumstances of Hong Kong, the Standing Committee gives the 
following explanations concerning the implementation in the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  Nationality  Law  of  the  People’s 
Republic of China-

1.  Where a Hong Kong resident is of Chinese descent and was born 
in  the  Chinese  territories  (including  Hong  Kong),  or  where  a  person 
satisfies  the  criteria  laid  down  in  the  Nationality  Law  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China  for  having  Chinese  nationality,  he  is  a  Chinese 
national. 

2.  All  Hong  Kong  Chinese  compatriots  are  Chinese  nationals, 
whether  or  not  they  are  holders  of  the  “British  Dependent  Territories 
Citizens  passport”  or  “British  Nationals  (Overseas)  passport”.  With 
effect  from  1  July  1997,  Chinese  nationals  mentioned  above  may,  for 
the  purpose  of  travelling  to  other  countries  and  territories,  continue 
to  use  the  valid  travel  documents  issued  by  the  Government  of  the 
United Kingdom. However, they shall not be entitled to British consular 
protection  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  other 
parts of the People’s Republic of China on account of their holding the 
above mentioned British travel documents. 

161 

 
 
 
3.  According  to  the  Nationality  Law  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China,  the  British  Citizenship  acquired  by  Chinese  nationals  in  Hong 
Kong  through  the  “British  Nationality  Selection  Scheme”  will  not  be 
recognised.  They  are  still  Chinese  nationals  and  will  not  be  entitled  to 
British  consular  protection  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region and other parts of the People’s Republic of China. 

4.  Chinese  nationals  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region with right of abode in foreign countries may, for the purpose of 
travelling  to  other  countries  and  territories,  use  the  relevant  documents 
issued by the foreign governments. However, they will not be entitled to 
consular  protection  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
and  other  parts  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  on  account  of  their 
holding the above mentioned documents. 

5.  If  there  is  a  change  in  the  nationality  of  a  Chinese  national  of 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  he  may,  with  valid 
documents  in  support,  make  a  declaration  at  the  authority  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  responsible  for  nationality 
applications. 

6.  The  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  is  authorised  to  designate  its  Immigration  Department  as  the 
authority  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  responsible 
for  nationality  applications.  The  Immigration  Department  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  handle  all  nationality 
applications  in  accordance  with  the  Nationality  Law  of  the  People’s 
Republic of China and the foregoing provisions. 

Note: 
*  This English translation text is prepared by the Department of Justice, Government of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. It is for reference purposes and has no 
legislative effect. 

162 

 
 
 
 
   
 
 
Instrument 14 

* Decision of the Standing Committee of the National 
People’s Congress on Treatment of the Laws Previously in 
Force in Hong Kong in Accordance with Article 160 of the 
Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region of the People’s Republic of China 

(Adopted at the Twenty Fourth Session of the Standing 
Committee of the Eighth National People’s Congress on 
23 February 1997) 

Article  160  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  (hereinafter 
referred to as “the Basic Law”) stipulates: 

“Upon  the  establishment  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region,  the  laws  previously  in  force  in  Hong  Kong  shall  be  adopted  as 
laws of the Region except for those which the Standing Committee of the 
National People’s Congress declares to be in contravention of this Law. 
If any laws are later discovered to be in contravention of this Law, they 
shall be amended or cease to have force in accordance with the procedure 
as prescribed by this Law.” 

Article 8 stipulates: 

“The  laws  previously  in  force  in  Hong  Kong,  that  is,  the  common 
law,  rules  of  equity,  ordinances,  subordinate  legislation  and  customary 
law  shall  be  maintained,  except  for  any  that  contravene  this  Law,  and 
subject  to  any  amendment  by  the  legislature  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region.” 

In accordance with the above provisions, the Standing Committee of 
the Eighth National People’s Congress examined the proposals made by 
the  Preparatory  Committee  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region on treatment of issues relating to the laws previously in force in 
Hong Kong, and decides at its Twenty Fourth Session as follows: 

163 

1.  The  laws  previously  in  force  in  Hong  Kong,  which  include  the 
common  law,  rules  of  equity,  ordinances,  subordinate  legislation  and 
customary law, except for those which are in contravention of the Basic 
Law, are adopted as the laws of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region. 

2.  Such  of  the  ordinances  and  subordinate  legislation  previously 
in  force  in  Hong  Kong  as  set  out  in  Annex  1  to  this  Decision  are  in 
contravention  of  the  Basic  Law  and  are  not  adopted  as  the  laws  of  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

3.  Such  provisions  of  the  ordinances  and  subordinate  legislation 
previously in force in Hong Kong as set out in Annex 2 to this Decision 
are  in  contravention  of  the  Basic  Law  and  those  provisions  are  not 
adopted as the laws of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 

4.  Such  of  the  laws  previously  in  force  in  Hong  Kong  which  have 
been  adopted  as  the  laws  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  shall,  as  from  1  July  1997,  be  applied  subject  to  such 
modifications,  adaptations,  limitations  or  exceptions  as  are  necessary 
so  as  to  bring  them  into  conformity  with  the  status  of  Hong  Kong 
after  resumption  by  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  of  the  exercise  of 
sovereignty  over  Hong  Kong  as  well  as  to  be  in  conformity  with  the 
relevant  provisions  of  the  Basic  Law.  For  example,  the  New  Territories 
Land (Exemption) Ordinance should conform with the above principles 
in its application. 

Apart from conforming with the above principles, the following shall 
be observed, that is to say, in the ordinances and subordinate legislation 
previously in force: 

(1)  laws  relating  to  foreign  affairs  in  respect  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  which  are  inconsistent  with  the  national 
laws  applied  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall  be 
subject to the national laws and shall be consistent with the international 
rights and obligations of the Central People’s Government; 

164 

 
 
 
 
 
(2)  provisions conferring privileges on the United Kingdom or other 
Commonwealth countries or territories, other than provisions relating to 
reciprocal  arrangements  between  Hong  Kong  and  the  United  Kingdom 
or other Commonwealth countries or territories, are not retained; 

(3)  provisions  relating  to  the  rights,  exemptions  and  obligations 
of  military  forces  stationed  in  Hong  Kong  by  the  United  Kingdom  are 
retained  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Basic  Law  and  the  Law  of  the 
People’s Republic of China on the Garrisoning of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China, and shall apply 
to the military forces stationed in the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region by the Central People’s Government of the People’s Republic of 
China; 

(4)  provisions  relating  to  the  superior  legal  status  of  the  English 
language  as  compared  with  the  Chinese  language  shall  be  construed  as 
providing that both the Chinese and English languages are to be official 
languages; 

(5)  provisions  applying  any  English  law  may  continue  to  be 
applicable  by  reference  thereto  as  a  transitional  arrangement  pending 
their  amendment  by  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region, 
provided that they are not prejudicial to the sovereignty of the People’s 
Republic  of  China  and  do  not  contravene  the  provisions  of  the  Basic 
Law. 

5.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 4, the names or expressions 
appearing in the laws previously in force in Hong Kong that are adopted 
as the laws of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall, unless 
the  context  otherwise  requires,  be  construed  or  applied  in  accordance 
with the principles of substitution provided for in Annex 3 to this Decision. 

6.  If  any  laws  previously  in  force  in  Hong  Kong  which  have  been 
adopted  as  the  laws  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
are later discovered to be in contravention of the Basic Law, they shall be 
amended or shall cease to have force in accordance with the procedure as 
prescribed by the Basic Law. 

165 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 1 

The  following  ordinances  and  subordinate  legislation  previously  in 
force in Hong Kong, which contravene the Basic Law, are not adopted as 
the laws of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region: 

1.  Trustees (Hong Kong Government Securities) Ordinance (Cap 

77, Laws of Hong Kong); 

2.  Application of English Law Ordinance (Cap 88, Laws of Hong 

Kong); 

3.  Foreign Marriage Ordinance (Cap 180, Laws of Hong Kong); 

4.  Chinese Extradition Ordinance (Cap 235, Laws of Hong Kong); 

5.  Colony  Armorial  Bearings  (Protection)  Ordinance  (Cap  315, 

Laws of Hong Kong); 

6. 

Secretary  of  State  for  Defence  (Succession  to  Property) 
Ordinance (Cap 193, Laws of Hong Kong); 

7.  Royal  Hong  Kong  Regiment  Ordinance  (Cap  199,  Laws  of 

Hong Kong); 

8.  Compulsory Service Ordinance (Cap 246, Laws of Hong Kong); 

9.  Army and Royal Air Force Legal Services Ordinance (Cap 286, 

Laws of Hong Kong); 

10.  British Nationality (Miscellaneous Provisions) Ordinance (Cap 

186, Laws of Hong Kong); 

11.  British  Nationality  Act  1981  (Consequential  Amendments) 

Ordinance (Cap 373, Laws of Hong Kong); 

12.  Electoral Provisions Ordinance (Cap 367, Laws of Hong Kong); 

166 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.  Legislative Council (Electoral Provisions) Ordinance (Cap 381, 

Laws of Hong Kong); 

14.  Boundary and Election Commission Ordinance (Cap 432, Laws 

of Hong Kong). 

Annex 2 

The  following  provisions  in  ordinances  and  subordinate  legislation 
previously  in  force  in  Hong  Kong,  which  are  in  contravention  of  the 
Basic  Law,  are  not  adopted  as  the  laws  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

the  definition  of  “Hong  Kong  permanent  resident”  in  section 
2  of  the  Immigration  Ordinance  (Cap  115,  Laws  of  Hong 
Kong)  and  the  provisions  relating  to  “Hong  Kong  permanent 
residents” in Schedule 1 to that Ordinance; 

any  provision  giving  effect  to  the  British  Nationality  Act  as 
applied in Hong Kong; 

provisions relating to election in the Urban Council Ordinance 
(Cap 101, Laws of Hong Kong); 

provisions  relating  to  election 
Ordinance (Cap 385, Laws of Hong Kong); 

in  the  Regional  Council 

provisions relating to election in the District Boards Ordinance 
(Cap 366, Laws of Hong Kong); 

the  Urban  Council,  Regional  Council  and  District  Board 
Election Expenses Order (sub. leg. A) and the Resolution of the 
Legislative  Council  (sub.  leg.  C)  made  under  the  Corrupt  and 
Illegal Practices Ordinance (Cap 288, Laws of Hong Kong); 

provisions  relating  to  the  interpretation  and  application  of  the 
Ordinance  in  section  2(3),  the  effect  on  pre-existing  legislation 
in  section  3  and  the  interpretation  of  subsequent  legislation  in 

167 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
section 4 of the Hong Kong Bill of Rights Ordinance (Cap 383, 
Laws of Hong Kong); 

8. 

provisions relating to the overriding status of the Personal Data 
(Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486, Laws of Hong Kong) in section 
3(2) of that Ordinance; 

9.  major amendments to the Societies Ordinance (Cap 151, Laws 

of Hong Kong) since 17 July 1992; 

10.  major  amendments  to  the  Public  Order  Ordinance  (Cap  245, 

Laws of Hong Kong) since 27 July 1995. 

Annex 3 

Names or expressions in the laws previously in force in Hong Kong 
that  are  adopted  as  the  laws  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  shall  generally  be  construed  or  applied  in  accordance  with  the 
following principles of substitution: 

1. 

In the case of any provision in which any reference is made to 
“Her Majesty”, “the Crown”, “the British Government” or “the 
Secretary of State” or to a similar name or expression, where the 
content  of  the  provision  relates  to  title  to  land  in  Hong  Kong 
or  involves  affairs  provided  for  in  the  Basic  Law  for  which 
the  Central  People’s  Government  is  responsible  or  involves 
the  relationship  between  the  Central  People’s  Government 
and  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  the 
name  or  expression  shall  be  construed  as  the  Central  People’s 
Government  or  other  competent  authorities  of  the  People’s 
Republic of China. In other cases, the name or expression shall 
be  construed  as  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region. 

2. 

In the case of any provision in which any reference is made to 
“Her  Majesty  in  Council”  or  “the  Privy  Council”,  where  the 
content  of  the  provision  relates  to  appellate  jurisdiction,  the 
name  or  expression  shall  be  construed  as  the  Court  of  Final 

168 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Appeal  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region. 
In  other  cases,  the  name  or  expression  shall  be  dealt  with  in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 hereof. 

3. 

In  the  case  of  a  Government  agency  or  a  semi-official  agency 
bearing a name with the word “Royal”, the word “Royal” shall 
be  removed  from  its  name  and  the  agency  shall  be  construed 
as  the  corresponding  agency  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region. 

4.  Any reference to “the Colony” shall be construed as a reference 
to  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  any 
description  of  the  territories  of  Hong  Kong  shall  be  construed 
and  applied  by  reference  to  the  map  of  the  administrative 
division  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
published by the State Council. 

5.  Any  reference  to  such  name  or  expression  as  “the  Supreme 
Court” or “the High Court” shall be construed respectively as a 
reference to the High Court or the Court of First Instance of the 
High Court. 

6.  Any  reference  to  such  name  or  expression  as  “the  Governor”, 
“the  Governor 
in  Council”,  “the  Chief  Secretary”,  “the 
Attorney  General”,  “the  Chief  Justice”,  “the  Secretary  for 
Home  Affairs”,  “the  Secretary  for  Constitutional  Affairs”, 
“the  Commissioner  of  Customs  and  Excise”  and  “Justice” 
shall  be  construed  respectively  as  a  reference  to  the  Chief 
Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region, 
the  Chief  Executive  in  Council,  the  Administrative  Secretary, 
the Secretary for Justice, the Chief Justice of the Court of Final 
Appeal  or  Chief  Judge  of  the  High  Court,  the  Secretary  for 
Home  Affairs,  the  Secretary  for  Constitutional  Affairs,  the 
Commissioner  of  Customs  and  Excise  or  Judge  of  the  High 
Court. 

7.  Any reference in the Chinese text of any law previously in force 
in  Hong  Kong  to  such  name  or  expression  as  the  Legislative 

169 

 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 

9. 

Council,  the  Judiciary  or  the  Executive  Authorities  or  the 
officers  of  those  bodies  shall  be  construed  and  applied  in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Basic Law. 

In the case of any provision in which any reference is made to 
“the  People’s  Republic  of  China”  or  “China”  or  to  a  similar 
name  or  expression,  such  reference  shall  be  construed  as  a 
reference to the People’s Republic of China as including Taiwan, 
Hong  Kong  and  Macau;  and  in  the  case  of  any  provision  in 
which any reference is made to such name or expression as the 
Mainland,  Taiwan,  Hong  Kong  or  Macau,  whether  separately 
or  concurrently,  such  reference  shall  be  construed  respectively 
as a reference to the Mainland, Taiwan, Hong Kong or Macau, 
as a part of the People’s Republic of China. 

In  the  case  of  any  provision  in  which  any  reference  is  made 
to  “foreign  state”  or  “foreign  country”  or  to  a  similar  term  or 
expression,  such  reference  shall  be  construed  as  a  reference  to 
any state, country or territory other than the People’s Republic 
of  China,  or  as  a  reference  to  “any  place  other  than  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region”,  as  the  context  of  the 
relevant  law  or  provision  requires;  and  in  the  case  of  any 
provision  in  which  any  reference  is  made  to  “alien”  or  to  a 
similar  term  or  expression,  such  reference  shall  be  construed 
as  a  reference  to  a  person  other  than  a  citizen  of  the  People’s 
Republic of China. 

10.  Any  reference  in  any  provision  to  “nothing  in  this  Ordinance 
shall  affect  or  be  deemed  to  affect  the  rights  of  Her  Majesty 
the  Queen,  Her  heirs  or  successors”  shall  be  construed  as 
a  reference  to  “nothing  in  this  Ordinance  shall  affect  or  be 
deemed to affect the rights of the Central People’s Government 
or  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region under the Basic law or other laws”. 

Note: 
*  This English translation text is prepared by the Department of Justice, Government of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. It is for reference purposes and has no 
legislative effect. 

170 

 
 
 
 
    
 
 
Instrument 15 

* The Interpretation by the Standing Committee of the National People’s 
Congress Regarding Paragraph 4 in Article 22 and Category (3) of 
Paragraph 2 in Article 24 of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 

(Adopted at the Tenth Meeting of the Standing Committee of the 
Ninth National People’s Congress on 26 June 1999) 

At its 10th Meeting, the Standing Committee of the Ninth National 
People’s  Congress  discussed  the  State  Council’s  Proposal  for  Giving 
an  Interpretation  to  Paragraph  4  in  Article  22  and  Category  (3)  of 
Paragraph  2  in  Article  24  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China. It is in order to 
respond to the report submitted by the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of Article 43 and those of Category (2) of Article 48 of the Basic Law of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic 
of China that the State Council has put forward the proposal. In view of 
the fact that the issue raised in the proposal concerns the interpretation 
of  the  relevant  articles  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  by  the  Court 
of  Final  Appeal  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in 
its  judgment  made  on  29  January  1999,  that  these  provisions  concern 
affairs  which  are  the  responsibility  of  the  Central  Authorities  and  the 
relationship between the Central Authorities and the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region,  that  the  Court  of  Final  Appeal,  before  making 
its  judgment,  failed  to  seek  an  interpretation  of  the  provisions  from  the 
Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  in  accordance 
with the provisions of Paragraph 3 in Article 158 of the Basic Law of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China and that the interpretation of the Court of Final Appeal is not in 
conformity  with  the  original  legislative  intent,  the  Standing  Committee 
of the National People’s Congress, after consulting its Committee for the 
Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, decides to 
give the following interpretations to the relevant provisions in the Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s 

171 

 
 
Republic  of  China  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Category  (4) 
of Article 67 of the Constitution of the People’s Republic of China and 
Paragraph 1 in Article 158 of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China: 

1.  The  provisions  of  Paragraph  4  in  Article  22  of  the  Basic  Law  of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic 
of China “for entry into the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, 
people  from  other  parts  of  China  must  apply  for  approval”,  mean  that 
persons from provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly 
under  the  Central  Government,  including  the  children  of  permanent 
residents  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  born  in  the 
mainland with Chinese nationality, who request to enter the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region with whatever reason shall, in accordance 
with  the  provisions  of  relevant  laws  and  administrative  regulations  of 
the  State,  apply  for  approval  from  the  relevant  government  department 
in  the  place  of  their  residence  and  may  only  enter  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  with  valid  certificates  issued  by  relevant 
authorities.  It’s  illegal  for  any  persons  or  children  mentioned  above 
to  enter  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  without  going 
through  due  approval  procedures  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
relevant laws and administrative regulations of the State. 

2.  The first three categories of Paragraph 2 in Article 24 of the Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s 
Republic of China provide: “The permanent residents of the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  shall  be:  (1)  Chinese  citizens  born  in 
Hong Kong before or after the establishment of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region; (2) Chinese citizens who have ordinarily resided 
in Hong Kong for a continuous period of not less than seven years before 
or  after  the  establishment  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region;  (3)  Persons  of  Chinese  nationality  born  outside  Hong  Kong  of 
those residents listed in categories (1) and (2)”. Among these people, the 
persons  provided  for  in  Category  (3)  “Persons  of  Chinese  nationality 
born  outside  Hong  Kong  of  those  residents  listed  in  categories  (1) 
and  (2)”  mean  that  those  persons,  at  the  time  of  their  birth,  no  matter 
whether  they  were  born  before  or  after  the  establishment  of  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region, whose parents or whose fathers or 

172 

 
 
mothers are Chinese citizens as provided for in Category (1) or Category 
(2)  of  Paragraph  2  in  Article  24  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region.  The  original  legislative  intent  elucidated 
by  this  Interpretation  and  the  original  legislative  intent  of  the  other 
categories  of  Paragraph  2  in  Article  24  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region have been embodied in the Opinions 
on the Implementation of the Second Paragraph of Article 24 of the Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China,  which  were  adopted  at  the  Fourth  Plenary  Meeting 
of the Preparatory Committee for the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region of the National People’s Congress on 10 August 1996. 

After  promulgation  of  this  Interpretation,  the  courts  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall,  in  applying  the  relevant 
articles  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  follow  this  Interpretation. 
This Interpretation does not affect the right of abode in the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  granted  to  the  litigating  party  in  the 
case  through  the  judgment  made  by  the  Court  of  Final  Appeal  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  on  29  January  1999.  As  to 
whether any other person conforms to the provisions of Category (3) of 
Paragraph  2  in  Article  24  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region,  the  matter  shall  be  decided  according  to  this 
Interpretation. 

Note: 
*  This English translation text is reproduced from “The Laws of the People’s Republic of 
China 1999” compiled by the Legislative Affairs Commission of the Standing Committee 
of the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China. It is for reference 
only and has no legislative effect. 

173 

 
 
   
Instrument 16 

* The Interpretation by the Standing Committee of the 
National People’s Congress Regarding Annex I (7) and Annex II (III) 
to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 

(Adopted at the Eighth Meeting of the Standing Committee of the 
Tenth National People’s Congress on 6 April 2004) 

At  its  8th  Meeting,  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  Tenth  National 
People’s  Congress  examined  the  motion  proposed  by  the  Council  of 
Chairmen  requesting  examination  of  the  Draft  Interpretation  by  the 
Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  Regarding 
Annex  I  (7)  and  Annex  II  (III)  to  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China. 
Having  consulted  the  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  under  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
National  People’s  Congress,  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress  has  decided,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  in 
Subparagraph  (4)  of  Article  67  of  the  Constitution  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China  and  the  provisions  in  the  first  paragraph  of  Article 
158 of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
of the People’s Republic of China, to make the following interpretation 
of  the  provisions  of  Annex  I  (7)  to  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China, under 
the  Method  for  the  Selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region, which reads, “If there is a need to amend 
the method for selecting the Chief Executives for the terms subsequent to 
the year 2007, such amendments must be made with the endorsement of a 
two-thirds majority of all the members of the Legislative Council and the 
consent of the Chief Executive, and they shall be reported to the Standing 
Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  for  approval”,  and  the 
provisions of Annex II (III), under the Method for the Formation of the 
Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
and its Voting Procedures, which reads, “With regard to the method for 
forming the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region and its procedures for voting on bills and motions after 2007, if 

174 

 
 
 
there is a need to amend the provisions of this Annex, such amendments 
must  be  made  with  the  endorsement  of  a  two-thirds  majority  of  all  the 
members of the Council and the consent of the Chief Executive, and they 
shall  be  reported  to  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s 
Congress for the record” : 

1.  The  phrases  “subsequent  to  the  year  2007”  and  “after  2007” 

stipulated in the two Annexes mentioned above include the year 2007. 

2.  The  provisions  in  the  two  Annexes  mentioned  above  that  “if 
there is a need” to amend the method for selecting the Chief Executives 
for the terms subsequent to the year 2007 or the method for forming the 
Legislative  Council  and  its  procedures  for  voting  on  bills  and  motions 
after 2007 mean that they may be amended or remain unamended. 

3.  The  provisions  in  the  two  Annexes  mentioned  above  that  any 
amendment must be made with the endorsement of a two-thirds majority 
of  all  the  members  of  the  Legislative  Council  and  the  consent  of  the 
Chief  Executive  and  shall  be  reported  to  the  Standing  Committee  of 
the  National  People’s  Congress  for  approval  or  for  the  record  mean 
the  legislative  process  that  must  be  gone  through  before  the  method 
for  selecting  the  Chief  Executive  and  the  method  for  forming  the 
Legislative  Council  and  its  procedures  for  voting  on  bills  and  motions 
are  to  be  amended.  Such  an  amendment  may  become  effective  only 
if  it  has  gone  through  the  said  process,  including  the  approval  finally 
given by the said Committee in accordance with law or the reporting to 
the  Committee  for  the  record.  The  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  shall  present  a  report  to  the  Standing 
Committee of the National People’s Congress as regards whether there is 
a need to make an amendment, and the Committee shall, in accordance 
with the provisions in Articles 45 and 68 of the Basic Law of the Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China,  make  a  determination  in  the  light  of  the  actual  situation  in  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  in  accordance  with  the 
principle  of  gradual  and  orderly  progress.  The  bills  on  amendments  to 
the method for selecting the Chief Executive and the method for forming 
the Legislative Council and its procedures for voting on bills and motions 
and  the  proposed  amendments  to  such  bills  shall  be  introduced  by  the 

175 

 
 
 
Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  into  the 
Legislative Council. 

4.  If  no  amendment  is  made  to  the  method  for  selecting  the  Chief 
Executive,  the  method  for  forming  the  Legislative  Council  and  its 
procedures  for  voting  on  bills  and  motions  as  stipulated  in  the  two 
Annexes  mentioned  above,  the  provisions  relating  to  the  method  for 
selecting  the  Chief  Executive  in  Annex  I  will  remain  applicable  to  the 
method  for  selecting  the  Chief  Executive,  and  the  provisions  relating 
to  the  method  for  forming  the  third  term  of  the  Legislative  Council  in 
Annex  II  and  the  provisions  relating  to  its  procedures  for  voting  on 
bills  and  motions  in  Annex  II  will  remain  applicable  to  the  method  for 
forming the Legislative Council and its procedures for voting on bills and 
motions. 

This Interpretation is hereby announced. 

Note: 
*  This English translation text is reproduced from “The Laws of the People’s Republic of 
China 2004” compiled by the Legislative Affairs Commission of the Standing Committee 
of the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China. It is for reference 
only and has no legislative effect. 

176 

 
   
Instrument 17 

* Decision of the Standing Committee of the National 
People’s Congress on Issues Relating to the Methods for 
Selecting the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region in the Year 2007 and for Forming 
the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region in the Year 2008 

(Adopted at the Ninth Session of the Standing Committee of the 
Tenth National People’s Congress on 26 April 2004) 

The  Standing  Committee  of  the  Tenth  National  People’s  Congress 
examined  at  its  Ninth  Session  the  “Report  on  whether  there  is  a  need 
to  amend  the  methods  for  selecting  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  2007  and  for  forming  the 
Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in 
2008”  submitted  by  Tung  Chee-hwa,  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  on  15  April  2004  and,  before 
the  Session,  had  consulted  the  Hong  Kong  deputies  to  the  National 
People’s Congress, the Hong Kong members of the National Committee 
of  the  Chinese  People’s  Political  Consultative  Conference,  different 
sectors  of  Hong  Kong,  the  Hong  Kong  members  of  the  Committee 
for  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
under  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress,  and 
the  Constitutional  Development  Task  Force  of  the  Government  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  and  had  also  sought  the 
views of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council. 
The  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  was,  in  the 
course of the examination, fully aware of the recent concerns of the Hong 
Kong society about the methods for selecting the Chief Executive and for 
forming  the  Legislative  Council  after  the  year  2007,  including  the  views 
of some bodies and people that they wish to see the selection of the Chief 
Executive  by  universal  suffrage  in  the  year  2007  and  the  election  of  all 
the members of the Legislative Council by universal suffrage in the year 
2008. 

The Session is of the view that Articles 45 and 68 of the Basic Law of 

177 

 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic 
of  China  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “Hong  Kong  Basic  Law”)  already 
expressly  provide  that  the  methods  for  selecting  the  Chief  Executive 
of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  for  forming  the 
Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
shall  be  specified  in  the  light  of  the  actual  situation  in  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  and  in  accordance  with  the  principle 
of  gradual  and  orderly  progress,  and  that  the  ultimate  aims  are  the 
selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  by  universal  suffrage  upon  nomination 
by  a  broadly  representative  nominating  committee  in  accordance 
with  democratic  procedures  and  the  election  of  all  the  members  of  the 
Legislative Council by universal suffrage. The methods for selecting the 
Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and for 
forming the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  shall  conform  to  the  above  principles  and  provisions  of  the 
Hong Kong Basic Law. Any change relating to the methods for selecting 
the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
and  for  forming  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  shall  conform  to  principles  such  as  being 
compatible  with  the  social,  economic,  political  development  of  Hong 
Kong,  being  conducive  to  the  balanced  participation  of  all  sectors  and 
groups  of  the  society,  being  conducive  to  the  effective  operation  of  the 
executive-led  system,  being  conducive  to  the  maintenance  of  the  long-
term prosperity and stability of Hong Kong. 

The  Session  is  of  the  view  that  since  the  establishment  of  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region, Hong Kong residents have enjoyed 
democratic  rights  that  they  have  never  had  before.  The  first  Chief 
Executive was elected by the Selection Committee, which was composed 
of 400 members. The second Chief Executive was elected by the Election 
Committee,  which  was  composed  of  800  members.  Out  of  the  60 
members  of  the  Legislative  Council,  the  number  of  members  returned 
by  geographical  constituencies  through  direct  elections  increased  from 
20  in  the  Legislative  Council  in  the  first  term  to  24  in  the  Legislative 
Council  in  the  second  term  and  will  reach  30  in  the  Legislative  Council 
in  the  third  term  to  be  formed  this  September.  Hong  Kong  does  not 
have a long history of practising democratic elections. Until now, Hong 
Kong residents have exercised the democratic right to participate in the 

178 

 
 
selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Special  Administrative  Region 
for  less  than  7  years.  Since  the  reunification  of  Hong  Kong  with  the 
motherland, the number of members of the Legislative Council returned 
by  geographical  constituencies  through  direct  elections  has  already 
substantially increased. When the set-up is such that half of the members 
are  returned  by  geographical  constituencies  through  direct  elections 
and  half  of  the  members  are  returned  by  functional  constituencies,  the 
impact on the operation of the Hong Kong society as a whole, especially 
the impact on the executive-led system, remains to be examined through 
practice. Further, at present, different sectors of the Hong Kong society 
still  have  considerable  differences  on  how  to  determine  the  methods 
for  selecting  the  Chief  Executive  and  for  forming  the  Legislative 
Council  after  the  year  2007  and  have  not  come  to  a  broad  consensus. 
In  the  circumstances,  conditions  do  not  exist  for  the  selection  of  the 
Chief  Executive  by  universal  suffrage  upon  nomination  by  a  broadly 
representative  nominating  committee  in  accordance  with  democratic 
procedures  as  provided  for  in  Article  45  of  the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law 
and the election of all the members of the Legislative Council by universal 
suffrage as provided for in Article 68 of the Hong Kong Basic Law. 

In  the  light  of  the  above  and  pursuant  to  the  relevant  provisions 
of  the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  and  “The  Interpretation  by  the  Standing 
Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  of  Article  7  of  Annex  I 
and Article III of Annex II to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China”, the Standing 
Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  makes  the  following 
decision  on  the  methods  for  selecting  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  the  year  2007  and  for  forming 
the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
in the year 2008: 

1.  The  election  of  the  third  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  to  be  held  in  the  year  2007  shall  not  be 
by  means  of  universal  suffrage.  The  election  of  the  Legislative  Council 
of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  the  fourth  term  in 
the year 2008 shall not be by means of an election of all the members by 
universal  suffrage.  The  ratio  between  members  returned  by  functional 
constituencies  and  members  returned  by  geographical  constituencies 

179 

 
 
through direct elections, who shall respectively occupy half of the seats, is 
to remain unchanged. The procedures for voting on bills and motions in 
the Legislative Council are to remain unchanged. 

2.  Subject  to  Article  1  of  this  Decision  not  being  contravened, 
appropriate  amendments  that  conform  to  the  principle  of  gradual  and 
orderly  progress  may  be  made  to  the  specific  method  for  selecting  the 
third Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
in  the  year  2007  and  the  specific  method  for  forming  the  Legislative 
Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in the fourth 
term in the year 2008 according to the provisions of Articles 45 and 68 of 
the Hong Kong Basic Law and the provisions of Article 7 of Annex I and 
Article III of Annex II to the Hong Kong Basic Law. 

The  Session  is  of  the  view  that  developing  democracy  in  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  the  light  of  the  actual  situation 
and in a gradual and orderly manner according to the provisions of the 
Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  has  all  along  been  the  resolute  and  firm  stance 
of  the  Central  Authorities.  With  the  development  and  progress  in  all 
aspects  of  the  Hong  Kong  society  and  through  the  joint  endeavours 
of  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
and  Hong  Kong  residents,  the  democratic  system  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region will certainly be able to progress forward 
incessantly, and ultimately attain the aims of selecting the Chief Executive 
by  universal  suffrage  upon  nomination  by  a  broadly  representative 
nominating  committee  in  accordance  with  democratic  procedures  and 
electing all the members of the Legislative Council by universal suffrage 
provided for in the Hong Kong Basic Law. 

Note: 
*  This is an English translation of the original instrument in Chinese and is published for 
information. 

180 

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Instrument 18 

* Interpretation by the Standing Committee of the National People’s 
Congress Regarding the Second Paragraph in Article 53 of the Basic Law 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
People’s Republic of China 

(Adopted at the Fifteenth Meeting of the Standing Committee of the 
Tenth National People’s Congress on 27 April 2005) 

At its 15th Meeting, the Standing Committee of the Tenth National 
People’s  Congress  discussed  the  State  Council’s  Proposal  for  Giving 
an  Interpretation  to  the  Second  Paragraph  in  Article  53  of  the  Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China.  After  consulted  its  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the Standing Committee 
of the National People’s Congress, in accordance with the provisions of 
the  fourth  paragraph  in  Article  67  of  the  Constitution  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China  and  the  first  paragraph  in  Article  158  of  the  Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s 
Republic of China, gives the following interpretation to the provisions of 
the second paragraph in Article 53 of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China: 

The  second  paragraph  in  Article  53  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’ s Republic of China 
stipulates,  “In  the  event  that  the  office  of  Chief  Executive  becomes 
vacant,  a  new  Chief  Executive  shall  be  selected  within  six  months  in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 45 of this Law.” The provision 
that  “a  new  Chief  Executive  shall  be  selected  within  six  months  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  45  of  this  Law”  means  that 
a  new  Chief  Executive  shall  be  selected  in  accordance  with  the  method 
of  selection  provided  for  under  Article  45  of  the  Basic  Law,  and  that 
the  term  of  office  of  the  new  Chief  Executive  shall  be  determined  in 
accordance with the method of selection provided for under Article 45 of 
the Basic Law. 

The  third  paragraph  in  Article  45  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong 

181 

Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
stipulates,  “The  specific  method  for  selecting  the  Chief  Executive  is 
prescribed  in  Annex  I  ‘Method  for  the  Selection  of  the  Chief  Executive 
of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region’.”  Clause  1  of 
Annex  I  stipulates,  “The  Chief  Executive  shall  be  elected  by  a  broadly 
representative  Election  Committee  in  accordance  with  this  Law  and 
appointed  by  the  Central  People’s  Government.”  Under  Clause  2  it 
is  stipulated  that,  “The  term  of  office  of  the  Election  Committee  shall 
be  five  years.”  Clause  7  stipulates,  “If  there  is  a  need  to  amend  the 
method  for  selecting  the  Chief  Executives  for  the  terms  subsequent  to 
the  year  2007,  such  amendments  must  be  made  with  the  endorsement 
of  a  two-thirds  majority  of  all  the  members  of  the  Legislative  Council 
and  the  consent  of  the  Chief  Executive,  and  they  shall  be  reported  the 
Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  for  approval.” 
The  provisions  mentioned  above  indicate  that  before  the  year  of  2007, 
under the arrangement made according to the system whereby the Chief 
Executive  is  elected  by  the  Election  Committee,  the  term  of  office  of 
which is five years, in the event that the office of Chief Executive becomes 
vacant before the expiration of the five years prescribed in Article 46 of 
the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s Republic of China, the term of office of the new Chief Executive 
shall be the remainder of the term of office of the previous Chief Executive; 
after 2007, should amendment be made to the above-mentioned method 
for  selecting  the  Chief  Executive,  the  term  of  office  of  the  new  Chief 
Executive shall be determined according to the specific method amended 
for selecting the Chief Executive, in the event that the office of the then 
Chief Executive becomes vacant. 

This Interpretation is hereby announced. 

Note: 
*  This English translation text is reproduced from “The Laws of the People’s Republic of 
China 2005” compiled by the Legislative Affairs Commission of the Standing Committee 
of the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China. It is for reference 
only and has no legislative effect. 

182 

 
 
   
Instrument 19 

* Decision of the Standing Committee of the National 
People’s Congress on Issues Relating to the Methods for 
Selecting the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region and for Forming the Legislative 
Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in 
the Year 2012 and on Issues Relating to Universal Suffrage 

(Adopted at the Thirty First Session of the Standing Committee of the 
Tenth National People’s Congress on 29 December 2007) 

The  Standing  Committee  of  the  Tenth  National  People’s  Congress 
considered  at  its  Thirty-first  Session  the  “Report  on  the  Public 
Consultation  on  Constitutional  Development  and  on  whether  there  is  a 
need to amend the methods for selecting the Chief Executive of the Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  for  forming  the  Legislative 
Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  2012” 
submitted  by  Tsang  Yam-kuen,  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region,  on  12  December  2007.  The  Session  is 
of  the  view  that  appropriate  amendments  may  be  made  to  the  specific 
method for selecting the fourth Chief Executive and the specific method 
for forming the fifth term Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  in  the  year  2012;  that  the  election  of  the  fifth 
Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in the 
year 2017 may be implemented by the method of universal suffrage; that 
after  the  Chief  Executive  is  selected  by  universal  suffrage,  the  election 
of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region may be implemented by the method of electing all the members 
by  universal  suffrage.  Pursuant  to  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China  and  “The  Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee 
of the National People’s Congress of Article 7 of Annex I and Article III 
of Annex II to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China”,  the  Standing  Committee  of 
the National People’s Congress hereby makes the following decision: 

1.  The  election  of  the  fourth  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong 

183 

 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  the  year  2012  shall  not  be 
implemented  by  the  method  of  universal  suffrage.  The  election  of  the 
fifth term Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  in  the  year  2012  shall  not  be  implemented  by  the  method  of 
electing  all  the  members  by  universal  suffrage.  The  half-and-half  ratio 
between  members  returned  by  functional  constituencies  and  members 
returned  by  geographical  constituencies  through  direct  elections  shall 
remain  unchanged.  The  procedures  for  voting  on  bills  and  motions 
in  the  Legislative  Council  shall  remain  unchanged.  Subject  to  the 
aforementioned,  appropriate  amendments  conforming  to  the  principle 
of  gradual  and  orderly  progress  may  be  made  to  the  specific  method 
for  selecting  the  fourth  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  in  the  year  2012  and  the  specific  method  for 
forming  the  fifth  term  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region in the year 2012 in accordance with the provisions 
of Articles 45 and 68, and those of Article 7 of Annex I and Article III 
of Annex II to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region of the People’s Republic of China. 

2.  At an appropriate time prior to the selection of the Chief Executive 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region by universal suffrage, 
the  Chief  Executive  shall  make  a  report  to  the  Standing  Committee  of 
the  National  People’s  Congress  as  regards  the  issue  of  amending  the 
method for selecting the Chief Executive in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the Hong Kong Basic Law and “The Interpretation by the 
Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  of  Article  7  of 
Annex I and Article III of Annex II to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China”;  a 
determination  thereon  shall  be  made  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
National People’s Congress. The bills on the amendments to the method 
for selecting the Chief Executive and the proposed amendments to such 
bills  shall  be  introduced  by  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  to  the  Legislative  Council;  such  amendments 
must  be  made  with  the  endorsement  of  a  two-thirds  majority  of  all 
the  members  of  the  Legislative  Council  and  the  consent  of  the  Chief 
Executive  and  they  shall  be  reported  to  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
National People’s Congress for approval. 

184 

 
 
3.  At  an  appropriate  time  prior  to  the  election  of  all  the  members 
of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region by universal suffrage, the Chief Executive shall make a report to 
the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress as regards the 
issue  of  amending  the  method  for  forming  the  Legislative  Council  and 
the  issue  of  whether  any  corresponding  amendment  should  be  made  to 
the procedures for voting on bills and motions in the Legislative Council 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Hong Kong Basic Law 
and  “The  Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s Congress of Article 7 of Annex I and Article III of Annex II to 
the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s Republic of China”; a determination thereon shall be made by 
the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress.  The  bills 
on  the  amendments  to  the  method  for  forming  the  Legislative  Council 
and  its  procedures  for  voting  on  bills  and  motions  and  the  proposed 
amendments to such bills shall be introduced by the Government of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  to  the  Legislative  Council; 
such  amendments  must  be  made  with  the  endorsement  of  a  two-thirds 
majority of all the members of the Legislative Council and the consent of 
the Chief Executive and they shall be reported to the Standing Committee 
of the National People’s Congress for the record. 

4.  If  no  amendment  is  made  to  the  method  for  selecting  the  Chief 
Executive,  the  method  for  forming  the  Legislative  Council  or  its 
procedures for voting on bills and motions in accordance with the legal 
procedures,  the  method  for  selecting  the  Chief  Executive  used  for  the 
preceding term shall continue to apply, and the method for forming the 
Legislative  Council  and  the  procedures  for  voting  on  bills  and  motions 
used for the preceding term shall continue to apply. 

The Session is of the view that in accordance with the provisions of 
Article 45 of the Hong Kong Basic Law, in selecting the Chief Executive 
of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  by  the  method  of 
universal  suffrage,  a  broadly  representative  nominating  committee  shall 
be  formed.  The  nominating  committee  may  be  formed  with  reference 
to  the  current  provisions  regarding  the  Election  Committee  in  Annex 
I  to  the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law.  The  nominating  committee  shall  in 
accordance  with  democratic  procedures  nominate  a  certain  number  of 

185 

 
 
 
candidates  for  the  office  of  the  Chief  Executive,  who  is  to  be  elected 
through  universal  suffrage  by  all  registered  electors  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region,  and  to  be  appointed  by  the  Central 
People’s Government. 

The  Session  is  of  the  view  that  with  the  joint  efforts  of  the 
Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  the 
people of Hong Kong, the democratic system of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  will  definitely  make  progress  continuously,  and 
that  the  aim  of  the  selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  and  the  election  of 
all  the  members  of  the  Legislative  Council  by  universal  suffrage  will  be 
realized in accordance with the Hong Kong Basic Law and this Decision. 

Note: 
*  This  English  translation  is  prepared  by  the  Department  of  Justice,  Government  of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. It is for reference purposes and has no 
legislative effect. 

186 

    
 
 
Instrument 20 

* Decision of the Standing Committee of the 
National People’s Congress on Approving 
the “Amendment to Annex I to the Basic Law 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
of the People’s Republic of China Concerning the 
Method for the Selection of the Chief Executive of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region” 

(Adopted at the Sixteenth Session of the Standing Committee of the 
Eleventh National People’s Congress on 28 August 2010) 

The Standing Committee of the Eleventh National People’s Congress 

at its Sixteenth Session decides as follows: 

Pursuant  to  Annex  I  to  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  “The 
Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s 
Congress of Article 7 of Annex I and Article III of Annex II to the Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China”  and  the  “Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of 
the  National  People’s  Congress  on  Issues  Relating  to  the  Methods  for 
Selecting the Chief Executive of the Hong  Kong Special Administrative 
Region  and  for  Forming  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  in  the  Year  2012  and  on  Issues  Relating 
to Universal Suffrage”, the “Amendment to Annex I to the Basic Law of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic 
of China Concerning the Method for the Selection of the Chief Executive 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region proposed by the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region” is approved. 

187 

The  “Amendment  to  Annex  I  to  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
Concerning  the  Method  for  the  Selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  of  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region” comes into effect on the date 
of approval. 

Note: 
*  This English translation is prepared by the Department of Justice, Government of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.  It is for reference purposes and has no 
legislative effect. 

188 

 
 
 
 
 
Instrument 21 

* Amendment to Annex I to the Basic Law 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
of the People’s Republic of China Concerning the 
Method for the Selection of the Chief Executive of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 

(Approved at the Sixteenth Session of the Standing Committee of the 
Eleventh National People’s Congress on 28 August 2010) 

1.  The Election Committee to elect the fourth term Chief Executive 

in 2012 shall be composed of 1200 members from the following sectors: 

Industrial, commercial and financial sectors 
The professions 
Labour, social services, religious and other sectors 
Members of the Legislative Council, 

representatives of members of the District 
Councils, representatives of the Heung Yee 
Kuk, Hong Kong deputies to the National 
People’s Congress, and representatives of 
Hong Kong members of the National 
Committee of the Chinese People’s Political 
Consultative Conference 

300 
300 
300 

300 

The term of office of the Election Committee shall be five years. 

2.  Candidates  for  the  office  of  Chief  Executive  may  be  nominated 
jointly  by  not  less  than  150  members  of  the  Election  Committee.  Each 
member may nominate only one candidate. 

Note: 
*  This English translation is prepared by the Department of Justice, Government of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.  It is for reference purposes and has no 
legislative effect. 

189 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instrument 22 

* Proclamation of the 
Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress 
(Eleventh National People’s Congress) No. 15 

It is promulgated that pursuant to Annex II to the Basic Law of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China,  “The  Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress  of  Article  7  of  Annex  I  and  Article  III  of  Annex  II 
to  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China”  and  the  “Decision  of  the  Standing 
Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on  Issues  Relating  to  the 
Methods  for  Selecting  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  and  for  Forming  the  Legislative  Council  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  the  Year  2012  and  on 
Issues Relating to Universal Suffrage”, the “Amendment to Annex II to 
the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s Republic of China Concerning the Method for the Formation of 
the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
and Its Voting Procedures” is recorded by the Standing Committee of the 
National People’s Congress. 

The “Amendment to Annex II to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
Concerning  the  Method  for  the  Formation  of  the  Legislative  Council 
of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  Its  Voting 
Procedures” comes into effect on the date of promulgation. 

This proclamation is hereby made. 

Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress 
28 August 2010 

Note: 
*  This English translation is prepared by the Department of Justice, Government of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.  It is for reference purposes and has no 
legislative effect. 

190 

 
 
 
 
Instrument 23 

* Amendment to Annex II to the Basic Law 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
of the People’s Republic of China Concerning the Method 
for the Formation of the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region and Its Voting Procedures 

(Recorded at the Sixteenth Session of the Standing Committee of the 
Eleventh National People’s Congress on 28 August 2010) 

The fifth term Legislative Council in the year 2012 shall be composed 

of 70 members, and the composition shall be as follows: 

Members returned by functional constituencies 

Members returned by geographical constituencies through direct 

elections 

35 

35 

Note: 
*  This English translation is prepared by the Department of Justice, Government of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.  It is for reference purposes and has no 
legislative effect. 

191 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Instrument 24 

* Interpretation by the Standing Committee of the National People’s 
Congress Regarding the First Paragraph of Article 13 and Article 19 of 
the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region of the People’s Republic of China 

(Adopted at the Twenty Second Meeting of the Standing Committee of 
the Eleventh National People’s Congress on 26 August 2011) 

The Standing Committee of the Eleventh National People’s Congress 
deliberated at its 22nd Meeting the Draft Interpretation by the Standing 
Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  Regarding  the  first 
paragraph  of  Article  13  and  Article  19  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
which  was  proposed  for  deliberation  by  the  Chairmen’s  Council.  The 
proposal  of  the  Chairmen’s  Council  was  submitted  upon  the  report  by 
the Court of Final Appeal of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
requesting  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress 
to interpret the relevant provisions of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  in 
accordance with the third paragraph of Article 158 of the Basic Law of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic 
of China. 

The Court of Final Appeal of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  needs  to  ascertain,  in  adjudicating  a  case  involving  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Congo,  whether  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  should  apply  the  rules  or  polices  on  state 
immunity  as  determined  by  the  Central  People’s  Government.  For  this 
purpose,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  third  paragraph  of 
Article  158  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region of the People’s Republic of China, the Court of Final Appeal of 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  seeks  an  interpretation 
from  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on 
the  following  questions:  “(1)  whether  on  the  true  interpretation  of  the 
first  paragraph  of  Article  13,  the  Central  People’s  Government  has 
the  power  to  determine  the  rule  or  policy  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 

192 

China  on  state  immunity;  (2)  if  so,  whether  on  the  true  interpretation 
of  the  first  paragraph  of  Article  13  and  Article  19,  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  (HKSAR),  including  the  courts  of  the 
HKSAR:  (i)  is  bound  to  apply  or  give  effect  to  the  rule  or  policy  on 
state  immunity  determined  by  the  Central  People’s  Government  under 
the  first  paragraph  of  Article  13;  or  (ii)  on  the  other  hand,  is  at  liberty 
to  depart  from  the  rule  or  policy  on  state  immunity  determined  by  the 
Central People’s Government under the first paragraph of Article 13 and 
to  adopt  a  different  rule;  (3)  whether  the  determination  by  the  Central 
People’s  Government  as  to  the  rule  or  policy  on  state  immunity  falls 
within “acts of the State such as national defense and foreign affairs” in 
the first sentence of the third paragraph of Article 19 of the Basic Law; 
and (4) whether, upon the establishment of the HKSAR, the effect of the 
first paragraph of Article 13, Article 19 and the status of Hong Kong as 
a  special  administrative  region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  upon 
the  common  law  on  state  immunity  previously  in  force  in  Hong  Kong 
(this  is,  before  1  July  1997),  to  the  extent  that  such  common  law  was 
inconsistent  with  the  rule  or  policy  on  state  immunity  as  determined 
by  the  Central  People’s  Government  pursuant  to  the  first  paragraph  of 
Article 13, was to require such common law to be applied subject to such 
modifications,  adaptations,  limitations  or  exceptions  as  were  necessary 
to  ensure  that  such  common  law  is  consistent  with  the  rule  or  policy 
on  state  immunity  as  determined  by  the  Central  People’s  Government, 
in  accordance  with  Article  8  and  Article  160  of  the  Basic  Law  and  the 
Decisions of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress 
issued  on  23  February  1997  made  pursuant  to  Article  160.”  The  above 
request  for  interpretation  by  the  Court  of  Final  Appeal  of  the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region complies with the provisions of the 
third paragraph of Aricle 158 of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China. 

Pursuant to Subparagraph (4) of Article 67 of the Constitution of the 
People’s Republic of China and Article 158 of the Basic Law of the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China, 
and after consulting the Committee for the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  under  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
National  People’s  Congress,  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress,  in  relation  to  the  request  for  interpretation  by  the 

193 

Court of Final Appeal of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, 
hereby  makes  the  following  interpretation  of  the  provisions  of  the  first 
paragraph  of  Article  13  and  Article  19  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
and related issues: 

1. On question (1) on which an interpretation is sought by the Court 
of  Final  Appeal  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region. 
According  to  Subparagraph  (9),  Article  89  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China,  the  State  Council  as  the  Central  People’s 
Government  exercises  the  function  and  power  to  conduct  the  foreign 
affairs of the State; as the rules or polices on state immunity fall within 
diplomatic  affairs  in  the  realm  of  the  foreign  affairs  of  the  state,  the 
Central  People’s  Government  has  the  power  to  determine  the  rules 
or  polices  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  on  state  immunity  to  be 
given  effect  to  uniformly  in  the  territory  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China.  Based  on  the  above,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
first paragraph of Article 13 of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  that  “the 
Central People’s Government shall be responsible for the foreign affairs 
relating to the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region”, the conduct 
of  the  foreign  affairs  relating  to  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  falls  within  the  power  of  the  Central  People’s  Government. 
The  Central  People’s  Government  has  the  power  to  determine  the  rules 
or  polices  on  state  immunity  to  be  applied  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region. 

2. On question (2) on which an interpretation is sought by the Court 
of  Final  Appeal  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region. 
According  to  the  provisions  of  the  first  paragraph  of  Article  13  of  the 
Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  and  Article  1  of  this  Interpretation,  the 
Central  People’s  Government  has  the  power  to  determine  the  rules 
or  polices  on  state  immunity  to  be  applied  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region.  According  to  the  provisions  of  Article  19  of 
the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s Republic of China and Article 3 of this Interpretation, the courts 
of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  have  no  jurisdiction 

194 

 
over the act of the Central People’s Government in determining the rules 
or  polices  on  state  immunity.  Therefore,  when  questions  of  immunity 
from  jurisdiction  and  immunity  from  execution  of  foreign  states  and 
their  properties  arise  in  the  adjudication  of  cases,  the  courts  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  must  apply  and  give  effect 
to  the  rules  or  polices  on  state  immunity  determined  by  the  Central 
People’s  Government  as  being  applicable  to  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region.  Based  on  the  above,  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the first paragraph of Article 13 and Article 19 of the Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China,  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region, 
including  the  courts  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region, 
is  under  a  duty  to  apply  or  give  effect  to  the  rules  or  polices  on  state 
immunity  that  the  Central  People’s  Government  has  determined,  and 
must  not  depart  from  the  abovementioned  rules  or  polices  nor  adopt  a 
rule that is inconsistent with the abovementioned rules or polices. 

3. On question (3) on which an interpretation is sought by the Court 
of Final Appeal of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. State 
immunity  concerns  whether  the  courts  of  a  state  have  jurisdiction  over 
foreign  states  and  their  properties  and  whether  foreign  states  and  their 
properties  enjoy  immunity  in  the  courts  of  a  state.  It  directly  relates  to 
the  state’s  foreign  relations  and  international  rights  and  obligations. 
Therefore, the determination as to the rules or polices on state immunity 
is an act of state involving foreign affairs. Based on the above, “acts of 
the State such as national defense and foreign affairs” as stipulated in the 
third paragraph of Article 19 of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China includes the act 
of determination by the Central People’s Government as to the rules or 
policies on state immunity. 

4. On question (4) on which an interpretation is sought by the Court 
of  Final  Appeal  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region. 
According to the provisions of Article 8 and 160 of the Basic Law of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China,  the  laws  previously  in  force  in  Hong  Kong  shall  be  maintained 
only  if  there  is  no  contravention  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China. 

195 

In  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  4  of  the  Decision  of  the 
Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  Concerning 
the  Handling  of  the  Laws  Previously  in  Force  in  Hong  Kong  in 
Accordance with Article 160 of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  such  of  the 
laws  previously  in  force  in  Hong  Kong  which  have  been  adopted  as 
the  laws  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  shall,  as 
from  1  July  1997,  be  applied  subject  to  such  modification,  adaptations, 
limitations  or  exceptions  as  are  necessary  so  as  to  bring  them  into 
conformity  with  the  status  of  Hong  Kong  after  resumption  by  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  of  the  exercise  of  sovereignty  over  Hong 
Kong  as  well  as  to  be  in  conformity  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the 
Basic  Law.  The  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  as  a  local 
administrative  region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  that  enjoys  a 
high degree of autonomy and comes directly under the Central People’s 
Government, must give effect to the rules or polices on state immunity as 
determined by the Central People’s Government. The laws previously in 
force in Hong Kong relating to the rules on state immunity may continue 
to  be  applied  after  1  July  1997  only  if  they  comply  with  the  above 
requirements. Based on the above, in accordance with the provisions of 
the first paragraph of Article 13 and Article 19 of the Basic Law of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China, such of the laws previously in force in Hong Kong concerning the 
rules on state immunity which have been adopted as the laws of the Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  according  to  the  Decision  of  the 
Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  Concerning  the 
Handling of the Laws Previously in Force in Accordance with Article 160 
of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of 
the People’s Republic of China, which applied as from 1 July 1997, must 
be  subject  to  such  modifications,  adaptations,  limitations  or  exceptions 
as are necessary so as to be consistent with the rules or polices on state 
immunity that the Central People’s Government has determined. 

The Interpretation is hereby announced. 

Note: 
*  This  English  translation  is  reproduced  from  “The  Laws  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China 2011” compiled by the Legislative Affairs Commission of the Standing Committee 
of the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China. It is for reference 
only and has no legislative effect. 

196 

    
 
Instrument 25 

* Decision of the Standing Committee of the 
National People’s Congress on Issues Relating to the Selection of the 
Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region by 
Universal Suffrage and on the Method for Forming the Legislative 
Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
in the Year 2016 

(Adopted at the Tenth Session of the Standing Committee of the Twelfth 
National People’s Congress on 31 August 2014) 

The  Standing  Committee  of   the  Twelfth  National  People’s 
Congress  considered  at  its  Tenth  Session  the  Report  on  whether  there 
is a need to amend the methods for selecting the Chief Executive of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  2017  and  for  forming  the 
Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in 
2016 submitted by Leung Chun-ying, the Chief  Executive of  the Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  on  15  July  2014.  In  the  course 
of  deliberation, the relevant views and suggestions of  the Hong Kong 
community were given full consideration. 

The  Session  points  out  that  according  to  the  Decision  of  the 
Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on  Issues 
Relating  to  the  Methods  for  Selecting  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  for  Forming  the  Legislative 
Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  the  Year 
2012  and  on  Issues  Relating  to  Universal  Suffrage  adopted  by  the 
Standing  Committee  of   the  Tenth  National  People’s  Congress  at  its 
Thirty-first  Session  on  29  December  2007,  the  election  of   the  fifth 
Chief   Executive  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in 
the year 2017 may be implemented by the method of  universal suffrage; 
at an appropriate time prior to the selection of  the Chief  Executive of 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  by  universal  suffrage, 
the  Chief  Executive  shall  make  a  report  to  the  Standing  Committee 
of  the  National  People’s  Congress  as  regards  the  issue  of   amending 
the  method  for  selecting  the  Chief   Executive  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant provisions of  the Hong Kong Basic Law and the Interpretation 

197 

 
 
 
 
 
by the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of  Article 
7 of Annex I and Article III of Annex II to the Basic Law of the Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China, 
and a determination thereon shall be made by the Standing Committee 
of   the  National  People’s  Congress.  From  4  December  2013  to 
3 May 2014, the Government of  the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region conducted an extensive and in-depth public consultation on the 
methods for selecting the Chief  Executive in 2017 and for forming the 
Legislative  Council  in  2016.  In  the  course  of   consultation,  the  Hong 
Kong  community  generally  expressed  the  hope  to  see  the  selection  of 
the Chief  Executive by universal suffrage in 2017, and broad consensus 
was reached on important principles such as: the method for selecting 
the  Chief   Executive  by  universal  suffrage  shall  comply  with  the  Hong 
Kong Basic Law and the relevant Decisions of  the Standing Committee 
of   the  National  People’s  Congress  and  the  Chief   Executive  shall  be  a 
person  who  loves  the  country  and  loves  Hong  Kong.  With  respect  to 
the  methods  for  selecting  the  Chief   Executive  by  universal  suffrage 
in  2017  and  for  forming  the  Legislative  Council  in  2016,  the  Hong 
Kong  community  put  forward  various  views  and  suggestions.  It  was 
on  this  basis  that  the  Chief   Executive  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  made  a  report  to  the  Standing  Committee  of 
the  National  People’s  Congress  on  issues  relating  to  amending  the 
methods  for  selecting  the  Chief   Executive  in  2017  and  for  forming 
the  Legislative  Council  in  2016.  The  Session  is  of   the  view  that  the 
report  complies  with  the  requirements  of   the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law, 
the  Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s 
Congress of Article 7 of Annex I and Article III of Annex II to the Hong 
Kong Basic Law and the relevant Decisions of  the Standing Committee 
of   the  National  People’s  Congress,  and  reflects  comprehensively  and 
objectively  the  views  collected  during  the  public  consultation;  and  is 
thus a positive, responsible and pragmatic report. 

The Session is of  the view that implementing universal suffrage for 
the  selection  of   the  Chief   Executive  represents  a  historic  progress  in 
Hong  Kong’s  democratic  development  and  a  significant  change  in  the 
political  structure  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region. 
Since  the  long-term  prosperity  and  stability  of   Hong  Kong  and  the 
sovereignty,  security  and  development  interests  of   the  country  are 

198 

 
 
 
 
 
 
at  stake,  there  is  a  need  to  proceed  in  a  prudent  and  steady  manner. 
The  selection  of   the  Chief   Executive  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region by universal suffrage has its origin in Paragraph 
2 of  Article 45 of  the Hong Kong Basic Law: “The method for selecting 
the Chief  Executive shall be specified in the light of  the actual situation 
in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  in  accordance 
with  the  principle  of   gradual  and  orderly  progress.  The  ultimate  aim 
is  the  selection  of   the  Chief   Executive  by  universal  suffrage  upon 
nomination  by  a  broadly  representative  nominating  committee  in 
accordance  with  democratic  procedures.”  The  formulation  of   the 
method  for  selecting  the  Chief   Executive  by  universal  suffrage  must 
strictly  comply  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Hong  Kong  Basic 
Law,  accord  with  the  principle  of   “one  country,  two  systems”,  and 
befit  the  legal  status  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region.  It  must  meet  the  interests  of   different  sectors  of   the  society, 
achieve  balanced  participation,  be  conducive  to  the  development  of 
the  capitalist  economy,  and  make  gradual  and  orderly  progress  in 
developing a democratic system that suits the actual situation in Hong 
Kong.  Given  the  divergent  views  within  the  Hong  Kong  community 
on  how  to  implement  the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  provisions  on 
universal  suffrage  for  selecting  the  Chief   Executive,  and  in  light  of 
the  constitutional  responsibility  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the 
National People’s Congress for the proper implementation of  the Hong 
Kong  Basic  Law  and  for  deciding  on  the  method  for  the  selection  of 
the Chief  Executive, the Standing Committee of  the National People’s 
Congress  finds  it  necessary  to  make  provisions  on  certain  core  issues 
concerning  the  method  for  selecting  the  Chief   Executive  by  universal 
suffrage, so as to facilitate  the building  of   consensus  within the Hong 
Kong  community  and  the  attainment  of  universal  suffrage  for  the 
selection of  the Chief  Executive smoothly and in accordance with law. 

The  Session  is  of  the  view  that  since  the  Chief  Executive  of  the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall be accountable to both 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and the Central People’s 
Government  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of   the  Hong  Kong 
Basic  Law,  the  principle  that  the  Chief   Executive  has  to  be  a  person 
who  loves  the  country  and  loves  Hong  Kong  must  be  upheld.  This  is 
a  basic  requirement  of   the  policy  of   “one  country,  two  systems”.  It 
is  determined  by  the  legal  status  as  well  as  important  functions  and 

199 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
duties  of   the  Chief  Executive,  and  is  called  for  by  the  actual  need  to 
maintain long-term prosperity and stability of  Hong Kong and uphold 
the sovereignty, security and development interests of  the country. The 
method  for  selecting  the  Chief   Executive  by  universal  suffrage  must 
provide corresponding institutional safeguards for this purpose. 

towards 

The  Session  is  of   the  view  that  the  amendments  made  to  the 
method  for  forming  the  fifth  term  Legislative  Council  in  2012 
represented  major  strides 
the  direction  of  enhancing 
democracy.  The  existing  formation  method  and  voting  procedures  for 
the  Legislative  Council  as  prescribed  in  Annex  II  to  the  Hong  Kong 
Basic Law will not be amended, and will continue to apply in respect of 
the  sixth  term  Legislative  Council  in  2016.  This  is  consistent  with  the 
principle  of   gradual  and  orderly  progress  in  developing  a  democratic 
system  that  suits  Hong  Kong’s  actual  situation  and  conforms  to 
the  majority  view  in  the  Hong  Kong  community.  It  also  helps  the 
various sectors of  the Hong Kong community to focus their efforts on 
addressing  the  issues  concerning  universal  suffrage  for  selecting  the 
Chief   Executive  first,  thus  creating  the  conditions  for  attaining  the 
aim of  electing all the members of  the Legislative Council by universal 
suffrage after the implementation of  universal suffrage for the selection 
of  the Chief  Executive. 

Accordingly, pursuant  to the  relevant provisions of  the Basic Law 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic 
of  China, the Interpretation by the Standing Committee of the National 
People’s Congress of Article 7 of Annex I and Article III of Annex II to 
the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s Republic of China and the Decision of the Standing Committee 
of the National People’s Congress on Issues Relating to the Methods for 
Selecting the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  and  for  Forming  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region in the Year 2012 and on Issues Relating to 
Universal  Suffrage,  the  Standing  Committee  of   the  National  People’s 
Congress makes the following decision: 

I.  Starting  from  2017,  the  selection  of   the  Chief   Executive  of   the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region may be implemented by the 
method of  universal suffrage. 

200 

 
 
 
 
 
II.  When  the  selection  of   the  Chief   Executive  of   the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  is  implemented  by  the  method  of 
universal suffrage: 

(1) A broadly representative nominating committee shall be formed. 
The provisions for the number of  members, composition and formation 
method of  the nominating committee shall be made in accordance with 
the  number  of   members,  composition  and  formation  method  of   the 
Election Committee for the Fourth Chief  Executive. 

(2)  The  nominating  committee  shall  nominate  two  to  three 
candidates  for  the  office  of   Chief   Executive  in  accordance  with 
democratic  procedures.  Each  candidate  must  have  the  endorsement  of 
more than half  of  all the members of  the nominating committee. 

(3)  All  eligible  electors  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  have  the  right  to  vote  in  the  election  of   the  Chief   Executive 
and  elect  one  of   the  candidates  for  the  office  of   Chief   Executive  in 
accordance with law. 

(4)  The  Chief   Executive-elect,  after  being  selected  through 
universal  suffrage,  will  have  to  be  appointed  by  the  Central  People’s 
Government. 

III.  The  specific  method  of   universal  suffrage  for  selecting  the 
Chief  Executive shall be prescribed in accordance with legal procedures 
through amending Annex I to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China:  The  Method 
for  the  Selection  of   the  Chief   Executive  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region. The bill on the amendments and the proposed 
amendments to such bill shall be introduced by the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  Government  to  the  Legislative  Council  of 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  accordance  with 
the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  and  the  provisions  of   this  Decision.  Such 
amendments  shall  obtain  the  endorsement  of   a  two-thirds  majority 
of   all  the  members  of   the  Legislative  Council  and  the  consent  of  the 
Chief  Executive before being submitted to the Standing Committee of 
the National People’s Congress for approval. 

201 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV.  If   the  specific  method  of   universal  suffrage  for  selecting  the 
Chief  Executive is not adopted in accordance with legal procedures, the 
method  used  for  selecting  the  Chief   Executive  for  the  preceding  term 
shall continue to apply. 

V.  The  existing  formation  method  and  voting  procedures  for  the 
Legislative Council as prescribed in Annex II to the Hong Kong Basic 
Law  will  not  be  amended.  The  formation  method  and  procedures  for 
voting  on  bills  and  motions  of   the  fifth  term  Legislative  Council  will 
continue  to  apply  to  the  sixth  term  Legislative  Council  of   the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region in 2016. After the election of  the 
Chief   Executive  by  universal  suffrage,  the  election  of   all  the  members 
of   the  Legislative  Council  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  may  be  implemented  by  the  method  of   universal  suffrage.    At 
an appropriate time prior to the election of  the Legislative Council by 
universal  suffrage,  the  Chief   Executive  elected  by  universal  suffrage 
shall  submit  a  report  to  the  Standing  Committee  of   the  National 
People’s  Congress  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of 
the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  and  the  Interpretation  by  the  Standing 
Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  of  Article  7  of  Annex  I 
and Article III of Annex II to the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China as regards the 
issue  of   amending  the  method  for  forming  the  Legislative  Council.  A 
determination thereon shall be made by the Standing Committee of  the 
National People’s Congress. 

The Session stresses that it is the consistent position of  the central 
authorities  to  implement  resolutely  and  firmly  the  principles  of  “one 
country, two systems”, “Hong Kong people administering Hong Kong” 
and a high degree of  autonomy, strictly adhere to the Hong Kong Basic 
Law  and  steadily  take  forward  the  selection  of   the  Chief   Executive 
by universal suffrage in 2017. It is hoped that the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region Government and all sectors of  the Hong Kong 
community will act in accordance with the provisions of  the Hong Kong 
Basic  Law  and  this  Decision  and  jointly  work  towards  the  attainment 
of  the aim of  selecting the Chief  Executive by universal suffrage. 

Note: 
*  This is an English translation of the original instrument in Chinese and is published for 

information. 

202 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Instrument 26 

* Explanations on the Draft Decision of the Standing Committee 
of the National People’s Congress on Issues Relating to the Selection 
of the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region by Universal Suffrage and on the Method for Forming the 
Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
in the Year 2016 

At the Tenth Session of the Standing Committee of the Twelfth 
National People’s Congress on 27 August 2014 

Li Fei 
Deputy Secretary General of 
The Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress 

The Standing Committee of  the National People’s Congress, 

At  the  request  of   the  Chairmen’s  Council,  I  hereby  provide 
Explanations  on  the  Draft  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of 
the  National  People’s  Congress  on  Issues  Relating  to  the  Selection  of 
the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
by  Universal  Suffrage  and  on  the  Method  for  Forming  the  Legislative 
Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  the  Year 
2016. 

In  accordance  with  the  provisions  of   the  Basic  Law  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic 
of  China  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Hong  Kong  Basic  Law”) 
and  the  Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress  of  Article  7  of  Annex  I  and  Article  III  of  Annex  II 
to  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of 
the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  Leung  Chun-ying,  Chief   Executive 
of   the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  submitted  the 
Report  on  whether  there  is  a  need  to  amend  the  methods  for  selecting 
the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
in  2017  and  for  forming  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  in  2016  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the 

203 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“Report  by  the  Chief   Executive”)  to  the  NPC  Standing  Committee 
on  15  July  2014.  On  18  August,  the  Chairmen’s  Council  decided 
to  include  the  consideration  of   the  Report  by  the  Chief   Executive 
in  the  agenda  of   the  Tenth  Session  of   the  Standing  Committee  of 
the  Twelfth  NPC,  and  entrusted  the  responsible  officials  of   the 
relevant  departments  of   the  central  authorities  to  listen  to  the 
views  of   the  NPC  deputies  and  members  of   the  Chinese  People’s 
Political  Consultative  Conference  from  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region,  the  Hong  Kong  members  of   the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region Basic Law  Committee  under  the NPC 
Standing  Committee,  and  people  from  various  sectors  of  the  Hong 
Kong  community.  Opinions  of   the  Hong  Kong  and  Macao  Affairs 
Office  of   the  State  Council  were  also  solicited.  On  26  August,  the 
NPC  Standing  Committee  held  group  discussions  on  the  Report  by 
the Chief  Executive. 

The  members  of  the  NPC  Standing  Committee  pointed  out 
that,  as  stipulated  in  Paragraph  2  of  Article  45  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Basic  Law,  “The  method  for  selecting  the  Chief   Executive  shall 
be  specified  in  the  light  of   the  actual  situation  in  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  and  in  accordance  with  the  principle 
of   gradual  and  orderly  progress.  The  ultimate  aim  is  the  selection 
of   the  Chief   Executive  by  universal  suffrage  upon  nomination  by 
a  broadly  representative  nominating  committee  in  accordance  with 
democratic  procedures.”  The  Decision  of  the  Standing  Committee  of 
the  National  People’s  Congress  on  Issues  Relating  to  the  Methods  for 
Selecting the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  and  for  Forming  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region in the Year 2012 and on Issues Relating 
to  Universal  Suffrage adopted  on  29  December  2007  expressly  states, 
“that  the  election  of   the  fifth  Chief   Executive  of   the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  in  the  year  2017  may  be  implemented 
by  the  method  of   universal  suffrage;  that  after  the  Chief   Executive 
is  selected  by  universal  suffrage,  the  election  of   the  Legislative 
Council  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  may  be 
implemented  by  the  method  of  electing  all  the  members  by  universal 
suffrage.”  The  Decision  also  reaffirms  the  relevant  provisions  of   the 
Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  and  its  Interpretation  that  at  an  appropriate 

204 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
time prior to the selection of  the Chief  Executive of  the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  by  universal  suffrage,  the  Chief 
Executive  shall  make  a  report  to  the  NPC  Standing  Committee 
as  regards  the  issue  of   amending  the  method  for  selecting  the 
Chief  Executive,  and  a  determination  thereon  shall  be  made  by 
the  NPC  Standing  Committee.  The  members  of   the  NPC  Standing 
Committee  believe  that  since  the  year  2017  is  approaching,  it  is 
now  necessary  to  make  a  decision  on  issues  relating  to  the  methods 
for  selecting  the  Chief   Executive  in  2017  and  for  forming  the 
Legislative  Council  in  2016.  The  Report  submitted  by  the  Chief 
Executive  to  the  NPC  Standing  Committee  is  necessary  and  timely. 
The  Report  reflects  in  a  comprehensive  and  objective  manner  the 
views  and  wishes  of   the  Hong  Kong  community  regarding  the 
methods  for  selecting  the  Chief   Executive  by  universal  suffrage  and 
for  forming  the  Legislative  Council  in  2016,  which  include  both 
consensus  and  differences.  It  is  a  positive,  responsible  and  pragmatic 
report. 

The  members  of   the  Standing  Committee  are  of   the  view  that 
implementing  universal  suffrage  for  the  selection  of   the  Chief 
Executive of  the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region represents 
a  historic  progress  in  Hong  Kong’s  democratic  development  and  a 
significant change in the political structure of  the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region. Since the long-term prosperity and stability of 
Hong  Kong  and  the  sovereignty,  security  and  development  interests 
of  the country are at stake, there is a need to proceed in a prudent and 
steady  manner,  so  as  to  prevent  all  sorts  of   possible  risks  that  may 
arise therefrom. Since the selection of  the Chief  Executive of  the Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  by  universal  suffrage  has  its 
origin in the provisions of  the Hong Kong Basic Law, the formulation 
of  the method for selecting the Chief  Executive by universal suffrage 
must  strictly  comply  with  the  relevant  provisions  of   the  Hong  Kong 
Basic  Law,  accord  with  the  principle  of   “one  country,  two  systems”, 
and  befit  the  legal  status  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region.  It  must  meet  the  interests  of   different  sectors  of   the  society, 
achieve balanced participation, and be conducive to the development 
of  the capitalist economy, with a view to making gradual and orderly 
progress  in  developing  a  democratic  system  that  suits  the  actual 

205 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
situation  in  Hong  Kong.  The  members  of  the  Standing  Committee 
take  the  view  that  when  formulating  the  basic  policies  on  Hong 
Kong,  the  central  authorities  have  already  clearly  defined  the  scope 
and  criteria  for  the  principle  of   “Hong  Kong  people  administering 
Hong Kong”, that is, Hong Kong must be administered by the Hong 
Kong  people,  with  patriots  being  the  mainstay.  According  to  the 
Hong Kong Basic Law, the Chief  Executive of  the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  is  the  head  of   both  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  and  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region Government, and shall be accountable to both the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region and the Central People’s Government. 
The Chief  Executive must swear to uphold the Basic Law of the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 
and swear allegiance to the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
of  the People’s Republic of  China. Therefore, the Chief  Executive of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region must be a person who 
loves  the  country  and  loves  Hong  Kong.  This  is  a  basic  requirement 
of   the  policy  of   “one  country,  two  systems”.  It  is  determined  by  the 
legal status and important functions and duties of  the Chief  Executive 
as stipulated in the Hong Kong Basic Law, and called for by the actual 
need  to  maintain  long-term  prosperity  and  stability  of   Hong  Kong 
and uphold the sovereignty, security and development interests of  the 
country.  The  method  for  selecting  the  Chief   Executive  by  universal 
suffrage  should  provide  corresponding  institutional  safeguards  for 
this purpose. 

The  members  of   the  NPC  Standing  Committee  take  the  view 
that although 17 years have passed since the return of  Hong Kong to 
the  motherland,  there  is  still  a  small  number  of   people  in  the  Hong 
Kong community who do not properly understand the policy of  “one 
country, two systems”, do not abide by the Hong Kong Basic Law or 
acknowledge  the  Central  Government’s  governing  power  over  Hong 
Kong.  On  the  issue  of   universal  suffrage  for  the  Chief   Executive, 
there  are  divergent  views  within  the  Hong  Kong  community.  A 
small  number  of   people  have  even  raised  views  that  are  contrary  to 
the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  and  openly  advocated  illegal  activities. 
Such  developments  will  inevitably  undermine  the  rule  of   law  of   the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  the  interests  of   Hong 

206 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kong  residents  and  foreign  investors  and  the  long-term  prosperity 
and  stability  of   Hong  Kong,  and  hence  merit  close  attention.  The 
members  of   the  NPC  Standing  Committee  take  the  view  that  given 
its  constitutional  responsibility  for  the  proper  implementation  of   the 
Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  and  for  making  decision  on  the  method  for 
selecting  the  Chief   Executive,  it  is  necessary  for  the  NPC  Standing 
Committee  to  make  provisions  on  certain  core  issues  concerning  the 
method of  universal suffrage for the selection of  the Chief  Executive, 
so  as  to  facilitate  the  building  of   consensus  within  the  Hong  Kong 
community  and  ensure  that  the  selection  of   the  Chief   Executive  by 
universal  suffrage  will  proceed  on  the  right  track  as  laid  down  by 
the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  and  the  relevant  Decisions  of   the  NPC 
Standing Committee. 

The  Hong  Kong  and  Macao  Affairs  Office  of   the  State  Council 
takes the view that although the views are quite divergent in the Hong 
Kong  community  with  regard  to  the  specific  method  of   universal 
suffrage  for  the  selection  of   the  Chief   Executive,  various  sectors 
of   the  Hong  Kong  community  generally  hope  to  see  the  selection 
of   the  Chief   Executive  by  universal  suffrage  in  2017.  Therefore, 
in  accordance  with  the  relevant  Decision  of   the  NPC  Standing 
Committee  adopted  on  29  December  2007,  the  implementation 
of   the  selection  of   the  Chief   Executive  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region by universal suffrage in 2017 may be approved. 
At the same time, it is necessary to make provisions on the core issues 
concerning  the  method  of   universal  suffrage  for  selecting  the  Chief 
Executive,  which  will  be  conducive  to  building  further  consensus  in 
the  Hong  Kong  community.  The  method  for  forming  the  Legislative 
Council in 2016 may remain unchanged. 

Acting  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of   the  Hong  Kong 
Basic  Law  and  the  views  of   the  members  of   the  NPC  Standing 
Committee  on  the  Report  by  the  Chief   Executive,  and  having  taken 
into  full  account  the  views  of   the  Hong  Kong  and  Macao  Affairs 
Office of  the State Council and the views of  the Report by the Chief 
Executive,  the  Chairmen’s  Council  has  introduced  the Draft  Decision 
of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on 
Issues  Relating  to  the  Selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong 

207 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  by  Universal  Suffrage  and  on  the 
Method for Forming the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  in  the  Year  2016  (Draft  Decision).  I  will  now 
provide Explanations on the Draft Decision as follows. 

1.  On  the  selection  of   the  Chief   Executive  by  universal  suffrage 

starting from 2017 

In  accordance  with  the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law,  the  relevant 
Decision of  the NPC Standing Committee on 29 December 2007 and 
the views of  the members of  the NPC Standing Committee, Article I 
of  the Draft Decision provides that: “Starting from 2017, the selection 
of   the  Chief   Executive  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  may  be  implemented  by  the  method  of  universal  suffrage.” 
The major considerations with regard to this provision are: 

First,  the  wording  in  the  Draft  Decision  is  “Starting  from  2017, 
the  selection  of   the  Chief   Executive  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  may  be  implemented  by  the  method  of 
universal  suffrage”,  meaning  that  the  selection  of   the  fifth  Chief 
Executive  in  2017  and  all  the  Chief   Executives  thereafter  may  be 
implemented by the method of  universal suffrage. 

Second,  Article  45  of   the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  provides  that 
the  ultimate  aim  is  the  selection  of   the  Chief   Executive  by  universal 
suffrage. The relevant Decision of  the NPC Standing Committee on 29 
December  2007  further  provides  that  “the  election  of  the  fifth  Chief 
Executive  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  in  the 
year 2017 may be implemented by the method of  universal suffrage”. 
Article I of  the Draft Decision has made it clear that the selection of 
the Chief  Executive in 2017 and of  all the Chief  Executives thereafter 
may  be  implemented  by  the  method  of   universal  suffrage,  which 
accords  with  the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  and  the  above-mentioned 
Decision of  the NPC Standing Committee. 

Third, as a result of  years of  discussion on the issue of  universal 
suffrage for selecting the Chief  Executive, the Hong Kong community 
has reached consensus on four points, i.e., the Hong Kong community 

208 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
generally  hopes  to  see  the  implementation  of   universal  suffrage  for 
the  selection  of   the  Chief  Executive  in  2017;  it  generally  agrees  that 
the  method  of   universal  suffrage  for  the  Chief   Executive  should 
be  formulated  in  accordance  with  the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  and 
the  relevant  Interpretation  and  Decisions  of   the  NPC  Standing 
Committee;  it  generally  agrees  that  the  successful  implementation  of 
universal  suffrage  for  the  selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  will  bring 
about  positive  impact  on  the  sustained  development  and  the  long-
term  prosperity  and  stability  of   Hong  Kong;  and  it  generally  agrees 
that  Chief   Executive  candidates  should  be  persons  who  love  the 
country and love Hong Kong. The implementation of  the election of 
the  Chief   Executive  by  the  method  of   universal  suffrage  as  of   2017 
meets the common aspiration of  the Hong Kong community. 

2. On the provisions on the core issues of  universal suffrage for the 

Chief  Executive 

Article  45  of   the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  has  already  set  out 
quite  clear  provisions  on  universal  suffrage  for  selecting  the  Chief 
Executive. In accordance with the Hong Kong Basic Law, the views of 
the members of  the NPC Standing Committee and those from others, 
Article II of  the Draft Decision has made the following provisions on 
the core issues of  universal suffrage for the Chief  Executive: 

(1) On the composition of  the nominating committee 

Paragraph  (1)  of   Article  II  of   the  Draft  Decision  provides  that: 
“The  provisions  for  the  number  of  members,  composition  and 
formation  method  of   the  nominating  committee  shall  be  made  in 
accordance with the number of  members, composition and formation 
method  of   the  Election  Committee  for  the  Fourth  Chief   Executive.” 
According to this provision, the nominating committee to be defined 
by amendments to Annex I to the Hong Kong Basic Law shall follow 
the  current  composition  of   the  Election  Committee,  which  consists 
of   1,200  members  from  four  major  sectors  in  equal  proportions,  and 
keep the existing method for selecting the members as provided for by 
Annex I to the Hong Kong Basic Law. The major considerations with 
regard to this provision are: 

209 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First,  considering  the  legislative  intent  of   the  Hong  Kong  Basic 
Law,  the  expression  “broadly  representative”  in  the  context  of 
“a  broadly  representative  nominating  committee”,  as  provided  in 
Paragraph  2  of  Article  45  of  the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law,  carries 
the  same  meaning  as  that  in  “a  broadly  representative  Election 
Committee”,  as  provided  in  Annex  I  to  the  Hong  Kong  Basic 
Law.  That  is,  the  committee  shall  be  composed  of   members  from 
four  sectors  in  equal  proportions,  the  delimitation  of   the  various 
sectors,  the  organizations  in  each  sector  eligible  to  return  members 
and  the  number  of   such  members  to  be  returned  by  each  of   these 
organizations  shall  be  prescribed  by  the  electoral  law  enacted  by 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region,  and  the  committee 
members  shall  be  elected  by  corporate  bodies  in  various  sectors  on 
their  own  in  accordance  with  the  number  of   seats  allocated  and  the 
election  method  as  prescribed  by  law.  The  provision  in  the  relevant 
Decision  of   the  NPC  Standing  Committee  on  29  December  2007 
that  “the  nominating  committee  may  be  formed  with  reference  to 
the  current  provisions  regarding  the  Election  Committee  in  Annex  I 
to  the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law”,  indicates  clearly  the  common  theme 
between  the  nominating  committee  and  the  Election  Committee  as 
regards formation. Since there remains different understanding in the 
Hong  Kong  community  on  this  issue,  it  is  necessary  to  make  further 
clarifications  with  a  view  to  properly  implementing  the  provisions  of 
the Hong Kong Basic Law. 

Second,  the  method  for  forming  the  Election  Committee  to  elect 
the  Chief   Executive  was  based  on  the  consensus  forged  during  the 
extensive consultations and discussions when drafting the Hong Kong 
Basic  Law.  Past  elections  for  the  Chief   Executive  since  the  return  of 
Hong  Kong  have  proven  that  the  Election  Committee  has  covered 
representative  figures  from  all  sectors  of   the  Hong  Kong  community 
and  achieved  balanced  participation  of   all  sectors,  and  is  therefore 
in  conformity  with  the  actual  situation  of   Hong  Kong.  Composing 
the  nominating  committee  in  line  with  the  formation  of   the  current 
Election  Committee  meets  the  requirements  of   both  the  relevant 
provisions  of   the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  and  the  objective  need  to 
ensure  balanced  participation  and  fend  off   various  risks  during 
election of  the Chief  Executive by universal suffrage. 

210 

 
 
 
 
 
Third,  there  are  relatively  more  views  in  the  Hong  Kong 
community that the composition of  the nominating committee should 
be  decided  with  reference  to  the  existing  method  for  forming  the 
Election  Committee.  There  are  considerable  views  that  the  number 
of   members,  composition  and  formation  method  of   the  nominating 
committee  should  be  determined  by  following  the  existing  provisions 
of   the  Election  Committee.  Bearing  in  mind  that  the  provisions 
regarding  the  Election  Committee  for  the  fourth  Chief   Executive 
were made in 2010 alongside amendments to the method for selecting 
the  Chief   Executive  and  approved  by  the  NPC  Standing  Committee, 
and  that  the  total  number  of   seats  of   the  Election  Committee  was 
increased  from  800  to  1,200,  with  such  increase  being  made  in 
equal  proportions  for  all  four  sectors,  and  with  the  endorsement 
and  support  from  all  sides,  it  is  relatively  appropriate  to  provide  for 
the  nominating  committee  to  have  the  same  number  of   members, 
composition and formation method as the Election Committee. 

(2) On the number of  Chief  Executive candidates 

Paragraph  (2)  of   Article  II  of   the  Draft  Decision  stipulates  that 
“The  nominating  committee  shall  nominate  two  to  three  candidates 
for  the  office  of   Chief   Executive  in  accordance  with  democratic 
procedures”.  The  major  considerations  with  regard  to  this  provision 
are: 

First, the stipulation to have two to three candidates for the office 
of  the Chief  Executive is made to ensure a truly competitive election 
and  present  voters  with  real  choices.  It  could  also  serve  to  avoid 
problems  such  as  complicated  electoral  procedures  and  high  election 
costs caused by having too many candidates. 

Second,  since  the  return  of   Hong  Kong,  almost  all  elections  for 
the Chief  Executive were conducted each with a candidacy of  two to 
three.  It  fits  relatively  well  with  the  experience  gained  from  previous 
elections  in  Hong  Kong  to  set  the  number  of   candidates  at  two  to 
three. 

(3)  On  the  need  of   a  Chief   Executive  candidate  to  have  the 

211 

endorsement  of   more  than  half   of   the  members  of   the  nominating 
committee 

Paragraph  (2)  of   Article  II  of   the  Draft  Decision  stipulates  that 
“Each candidate must have the endorsement of  more than half  of  all 
the members of  the nominating committee”. The major considerations 
with regard to this provision are: 

First, the nominating committee as provided for by the Hong Kong 
Basic  Law  is  a  specialized  institution  for  nomination.  It  collectively 
exercises  the  power  to  nominate  Chief   Executive  candidates  as 
an  institution,  and  must  therefore  reflect  the  collective  will  of   the 
institution. The “democratic procedures” stipulated in Paragraph 2 of 
Article 45 of  the Hong Kong Basic Law should follow the democratic 
principle  of   majority  rule  so  as  to  reflect  the  requirement  that  the 
nominating committee exercises power in a collective manner. Hence, 
it is appropriate to stipulate that a person contending for nomination 
as  the  Chief   Executive  candidate  must  obtain  the  support  of   more 
than half  of  the members of  the nominating committee. 

Second,  the  nominating  committee  will  comprise  members  from 
the four sectors in equal proportions. The stipulation that contenders 
for  nomination  as  the  Chief   Executive  candidates  must  obtain 
the  support  of   more  than  half   of   the  members  of   the  nominating 
committee  means  that  candidates  need  to  obtain  a  certain  extent  of 
support from each sector of  the nominating committee. This will help 
fulfill the principle of  balanced participation and meet the interests of 
various sectors of  the Hong Kong community. 

Third,  the  Report  by  the  Chief   Executive  indicates  considerable 
views  of   the  Hong  Kong  community  that  a  person  contending  for 
nomination  as  the  Chief   Executive  candidate  has  to  obtain  support 
from a certain proportion of  members of  the nominating committee. 
Among  the  views  heard  by  the  General  Office  of   the  NPC  Standing 
Committee, quite a number of  people called for the proportion to be 
specified. Therefore, the further clarification that a person contending 
for  nomination  as  the  Chief   Executive  candidate  must  obtain  the 
endorsement  of   more  than  half   of   the  members  of   the  nominating 

212 

 
 
 
 
 
committee,  is  consistent  with  the  provisions  of   the  Hong  Kong 
Basic  Law,  and  will  facilitate  consensus  building  in  the  Hong  Kong 
community. 

(4) On the method for voting in the election for the Chief  Executive 

Article 26 of  the Hong Kong Basic Law stipulates that “Permanent 
residents of  the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall have 
the right to vote and the right to stand for election in accordance with 
law”. On that basis, Paragraph (3) of  Article II of  the Draft Decision 
stipulates  that  “All  eligible  electors  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  have  the  right  to  vote  in  the  election  of   the 
Chief  Executive and elect one of  the candidates for the office of  Chief 
Executive in accordance with law”. According to this provision, each 
and  every  eligible  elector  shall  have  the  right  to  directly  participate 
in  electing  the  Chief   Executive.  It  fulfills  the  principle  of   universal 
and  equal  electoral  right  and  marks  a  historic  step  forward  in  Hong 
Kong’s democratic development. 

(5) On appointment of  the Chief  Executive 

Paragraph  1  of   Article  45  of   the Hong  Kong  Basic  Law provides 
that “The Chief  Executive of  the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region  shall  be  selected  by  election  or  through  consultations  held 
locally and be appointed by the Central People’s Government.” Based 
on  this  provision,  Paragraph  (4)  of   Article  II  of   the  Draft  Decision 
stipulates  that  “The  Chief   Executive-elect,  after  being  selected 
through  universal  suffrage,  will  have  to  be  appointed  by  the  Central 
People’s  Government”.  The  central  authorities,  in  formulating  the 
basic  policies  with  respect  to  Hong  Kong  and  the  Hong  Kong  Basic 
Law,  already  clearly  pointed  out  that  the  power  of   the  Central 
People’s  Government  to  appoint  the  Chief   Executive  of   the  Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region is a substantive one. The Central 
People’s  Government  has  the  right  to  make  the  final  decision  on 
whether to appoint or not to appoint the Chief  Executive returned by 
election held locally in Hong Kong. 

3. On proposing amendments to the method for selecting the Chief 

Executive 

213 

 
 
 
 
 
The specific method for selecting the Chief  Executive is stipulated 
in  Annex  I  to  the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law.  To  amend  the  method  for 
selecting  the  Chief   Executive,  a  bill  on  amending  the  method  for 
selecting the Chief  Executive as well as relevant amendments to such 
bill  shall  be  proposed  by  the  Government  of   the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  Decisions  of 
the  NPC  Standing  Committee.  Accordingly,  Article  III  of   the  Draft 
Decision  stipulates  that  “The  specific  method  of   universal  suffrage 
for  the  Chief   Executive  shall  be  prescribed  in  accordance  with  legal 
procedures through amending Annex I to the Basic Law of  the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China: 
The  Method  for  the  Selection  of   the  Chief   Executive  of   the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region.  The  bill  on  the  amendments 
and  the  proposed  amendments  to  such  bill  shall  be  introduced  by 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  Government  to  the 
Legislative Council of  the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
in  accordance  with  the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law  and  the  provisions  of 
this  Decision.  Such  amendments  shall  obtain  the  endorsement  of   a 
two-thirds  majority  of   all  the  members  of   the  Legislative  Council 
and the consent of  the Chief  Executive before being submitted to the 
Standing Committee of  the National People’s Congress for approval.” 

4.  On  continued  application  of   existing  provisions  relating  to  the 
method for selecting the Chief  Executive if  no amendment is made to 
the method 

Pursuant  to  the  Interpretation  made  by  the  NPC  Standing 
Committee in 2004, if  no amendment is made to the method, existing 
provisions  relating  to  the  method  for  selecting  the  Chief   Executive, 
the  method  for  forming  the  Legislative  Council  and  the  procedures 
for  voting  on  bills  and  motions  will  remain  applicable.  In  2007, 
the  NPC  Standing  Committee  reaffirmed  the  above  position  in  its 
Decision  on  Issues  Relating  to  the  Methods  for  Selecting  the  Chief 
Executive  and  Forming  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region in the Year 2012 and on Issues Relating 
to Universal Suffrage. In the premises, Article IV of  the Draft Decision 
stipulates  that  “If   the  specific  method  of   universal  suffrage  for 
selecting the Chief  Executive is not adopted in accordance with legal 

214 

 
 
 
 
 
 
procedures, the method used for selecting the Chief  Executive for the 
preceding term shall continue to apply.” 

5. On the issue of  amending the method for forming the Legislative 

Council in 2016 

As  pointed  out  by  the  Report  by  the  Chief  Executive,  the  Hong 
Kong community generally agrees that efforts should now be focused 
on  the  proper  handling  of  the  election  of   the  Chief  Executive  by 
universal  suffrage;  and  that  as  relatively  substantial  amendments 
were made to the method for forming the Legislative Council in 2012, 
there  is  no  need  to  amend  Annex  II  to  the  Hong  Kong  Basic  Law 
regarding  the  method  for  forming  the  Legislative  Council  in  2016. 
Upon  deliberation,  the  members  of   the  NPC  Standing  Committee 
are  of  the  view  that  the  amended  method  for  forming  the  fifth  term 
Legislative Council of  the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
in 2012 already marked a major step towards greater democracy, and 
no  amendment  shall  be  made  to  the  existing  method  for  forming  the 
Legislative  Council  and  to  the  procedures  for  voting  as  prescribed  in 
Annex II to the Hong Kong Basic Law, which is to say that the current 
formation method and procedures for voting will continue to apply to 
the sixth term Legislative Council in 2016. This is consistent with the 
principle of  gradual and orderly progress in developing a democratic 
system  that  suits  the  actual  situation  of   Hong  Kong,  in  conformity 
with the majority view in the Hong Kong community, and conducive 
to the efforts of  all sectors of  the community to first focus on properly 
handling  the  selection  of   the  Chief   Executive  by  universal  suffrage, 
and it will create conditions for the attainment of  the aim of  electing 
all members of  the Legislative Council by universal suffrage after the 
implementation  of   universal  suffrage  for  the  selection  of   the  Chief 
Executive. In accordance with the deliberations of  the members of  the 
NPC Standing Committee and the views of  various sides, Article V of 
the Draft Decision stipulates that “The existing formation method and 
voting  procedures  for  the  Legislative  Council  as  prescribed  in  Annex 
II  to  the Hong  Kong  Basic  Law will  not  be  amended.  The  formation 
method  and  procedures  for  voting  on  bills  and  motions  of   the  fifth 
term  Legislative  Council  will  continue  to  apply  to  the  sixth  term 
Legislative Council of  the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 

215 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in  2016.”  To  reflect  the  consistent  position  of   the  central  authorities 
to resolutely and firmly develop the democratic system in Hong Kong, 
and to push for the attainment of  the aim of  electing all the members 
of   the  Legislative  Council  by  universal  suffrage,  this  article  further 
stipulates that “After the election of  the Chief  Executive by universal 
suffrage, the election of  all the members of  the Legislative Council of 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  may  be  implemented 
by  the  method  of   universal  suffrage.  At  an  appropriate  time  prior 
to  the  election  of   the  Legislative  Council  by  universal  suffrage,  the 
Chief  Executive  elected  by  universal  suffrage  shall  submit  a  report 
to  the  Standing  Committee  of   the  National  People’s  Congress  in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of  the Hong Kong Basic Law 
and  the  Interpretation  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress  of  Article  7  of  Annex  I  and  Article  III  of  Annex  II 
to  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of 
the  People’s  Republic  of  China  as  regards  the  issue  of   amending  the 
method for forming the Legislative Council. A determination thereon 
shall  be  made  by  the  Standing  Committee  of   the  National  People’s 
Congress.” 

You  are  kindly  requested  to  consider  whether  the  Draft  Decision 
of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on 
Issues  Relating  to  the  Selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  by  Universal  Suffrage  and  on  the 
Method for Forming the Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  in  the  Year  2016  and  the  above  Explanations 
are in order. 

Note: 
*  This is an English translation of the original instrument in Chinese and is published for 

information. 

216 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instrument 27 

* Interpretation of Article 104 of the Basic Law of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
of the People’s Republic of China by the Standing Committee 
of the National People’s Congress 

(Adopted by the Standing Committee of the Twelfth National People’s 
Congress at its Twenty Fourth Session on 7 November 2016) 

The Standing Committee of the Twelfth National People’s Congress 
examined at its Twenty-fourth Session the motion regarding the request 
for  examination  of  the  Draft  Interpretation  of  Article  104  of  the  Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China  submitted  by  the  Council  of  Chairmen.  Having 
consulted  the  Committee  for  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  under  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National 
People’s  Congress,  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s 
Congress  has  decided  to  make,  under  the  provisions  of  Article  67(4)  of 
the  Constitution  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  Article  158(1)  of 
the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s Republic of China, an interpretation of the provisions of Article 
104  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  regarding  “When  assuming  office,  the 
Chief  Executive,  principal  officials,  members  of  the  Executive  Council 
and of the Legislative Council, judges of the courts at all levels and other 
members  of  the  judiciary  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region must, in accordance with law, swear to uphold the Basic Law of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic 
of China and swear allegiance to the Hong Kong Special Administrative 
Region of the People’s Republic of China” as follows: 

1.  “To  uphold  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China”  and  to  bear 
“allegiance  to  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China”  as  stipulated  in  Article  104  of  the  Basic 
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s 
Republic of China, are not only the legal content which must be included 

217 

 
 
in the oath prescribed by the Article, but also the legal requirements and 
preconditions  for  standing  for  election  in  respect  of  or  taking  up  the 
public office specified in the Article. 

2. The provisions in Article 104 of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  that 
“When assuming office”, the relevant public officers “must, in accordance 
with law, swear” bear the following meaning: 

(1)  Oath  taking  is  the  legal  prerequisite  and  required  procedure 
for  public  officers  specified  in  the  Article  to  assume  office.  No  public 
office shall be assumed, no corresponding powers and functions shall be 
exercised, and no corresponding entitlements shall be enjoyed by anyone 
who fails to lawfully and validly take the oath or who declines to take the 
oath. 

(2)  Oath  taking  must  comply  with  the  legal  requirements  in  respect 
of  its  form  and  content.  An  oath  taker  must  take  the  oath  sincerely 
and  solemnly,  and  must  accurately,  completely  and  solemnly  read  out 
the  oath  prescribed  by  law,  the  content  of  which  includes  “will  uphold 
the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China,  bear  allegiance  to  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China”. 

(3) An oath taker is disqualified forthwith from assuming the public 
office  specified  in  the  Article  if  he  or  she  declines  to  take  the  oath.  An 
oath taker who intentionally reads out words which do not accord with 
the wording of the oath prescribed by law, or takes the oath in a manner 
which  is  not  sincere  or  not  solemn,  shall  be  treated  as  declining  to  take 
the oath. The oath so taken is invalid and the oath taker is disqualified 
forthwith from assuming the public office specified in the Article. 

(4)  The  oath  must  be  taken  before  the  person  authorized  by  law  to 
administer  the  oath.  The  person  administering  the  oath  has  the  duty 
to  ensure  that  the  oath  is  taken  in  a  lawful  manner.  He  or  she  shall 
determine  that  an  oath  taken  in  compliance  with  this  Interpretation 
and  the  requirements  under  the  laws  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  is  valid,  and  that  an  oath  which  is  not  taken  in 

218 

 
 
compliance with this Interpretation and the requirements under the laws 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region is invalid. If the oath 
taken is determined as invalid, no arrangement shall be made for retaking 
the oath. 

3. The taking of the oath stipulated by Article 104 of the Basic Law 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic 
of  China  is  a  legal  pledge  made  by  the  public  officers  specified  in  the 
Article  to  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  its  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region,  and  is  legally  binding.  The  oath  taker  must 
sincerely  believe  in  and  strictly  abide  by  the  relevant  oath  prescribed 
by  law.  An  oath  taker  who  makes  a  false  oath,  or,  who,  after  taking 
the  oath,  engages  in  conduct  in  breach  of  the  oath,  shall  bear  legal 
responsibility in accordance with law. 

This Interpretation is hereby announced. 

Note: 
*  This is an English translation of the original instrument in Chinese and is published for 

information. 

219 

 
 
 
 
Instrument 28 

* Decision of the Standing Committee of the 
National People’s Congress on the Continuing Discharge of 
Duties by the Sixth Term Legislative Council of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 

(Adopted at the Twenty First Session of the Standing Committee of the 
Thirteenth National People’s Congress on 11 August 2020) 

The  Standing  Committee  of  the  Thirteenth  National  People’s 
Congress deliberated at its Twenty-first Session the motion submitted by 
the State Council requesting a decision by the Standing Committee of the 
National People’s Congress on the continuing operation of the sixth term 
Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region. 
The  motion  was  moved  following  the  relevant  report  submitted  by  the 
Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to the 
Central People’s Government. In response to the severe local situation of 
the  novel  coronavirus  epidemic,  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region in consultation with the Executive Council 
had  decided  to  postpone  the  election  for  the  seventh  term  Legislative 
Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for one year. 
As  such,  there  will  be  a  lacuna  in  the  legislature  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region.  To  safeguard  the  constitutional  order 
and  order  of  the  rule  of  law  in  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region  and  to  ensure  the  normal  governmental  administration  of  the 
Government  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  the 
normal operation of the society, the Standing Committee of the National 
People’s  Congress  decides,  pursuant  to  the  relevant  provisions  of  the 
Constitution of the People’s Republic of China and the Basic Law of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China, as follows: 

After  30  September  2020,  the  sixth  term  Legislative  Council  of  the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  is  to  continue  to  discharge 
duties  for  not  less  than  one  year  until  the  seventh  term  of  office  of  the 
Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
begins.  After  the  seventh  term  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong 

220 

 
Special Administrative Region is formed in accordance with the law, its 
term of office remains to be four years. 

The decision is hereby announced. 

Note: 
*  This is an English translation of the original instrument in Chinese and is published for 

information. 

221 

 
 
Instrument 29 

* Decision of the Standing Committee of the 
National People’s Congress on Issues Relating to the 
Qualification of the Members of the Legislative Council 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 

(Adopted at the Twenty Third Session of the Standing Committee of 
the Thirteenth National People’s Congress on 11 November 2020) 

The  Standing  Committee  of  the  Thirteenth  National  People’s 
Congress  deliberated  at  its  Twenty-third  Session  the  motion  submitted 
by  the  State  Council  requesting  a  decision  on  issues  relating  to  the 
qualification  of  the  members  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong 
The  motion  was  moved 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region. 
following  the  request  of  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region.  The Session is of the view that it must be ensured 
that  relevant  public  officers  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative 
Region,  including  members  of  the  Legislative  Council,  meet  the  legal 
requirements  and  conditions  on  upholding  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
and bearing allegiance to the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  in  order  to  fully  and  faithfully 
implement  the  principle  of  “One  Country,  Two  Systems”  and  the 
Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China,  safeguard  national  sovereignty,  security 
and  development  interests  and  safeguard  the  long-term  prosperity 
and  stability  of  Hong  Kong.  Accordingly,  the  Standing  Committee 
of  the  National  People’s  Congress  has  approved  the  motion  moved 
by  the  State  Council  on  7  November  2020  and  made  the  following 
decision pursuant to Articles 52, 54 and 67(1) of the Constitution of the 
People’s  Republic  of  China,  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  the  Decision 
of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on  Establishing  and  Improving  the 
Legal System and Enforcement Mechanisms for the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative  Region  to  Safeguard  National  Security,  the  relevant 
provisions of the Law of the People’s Republic of China on Safeguarding 
National Security in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and 

222 

 
the  Interpretation  of  Article  104  of  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China by the 
Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, and the Decision 
of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on  the 
Continuing Discharge of Duties by the Sixth Term Legislative Council of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region: 

1.  A  member  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  does  not  meet  the  legal  requirements  and 
conditions  on  upholding  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative  Region  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  bearing 
allegiance  to  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the 
People’s Republic of China if the member advocates or supports “Hong 
Kong  independence”,  refuses  to  recognize  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China’s sovereignty over Hong Kong and the exercise of the sovereignty, 
solicits  intervention  by  foreign  or  external  forces  in  the  Hong  Kong 
Special  Administrative  Region’s  affairs,  or  carries  out  other  activities 
endangering  national  security.  Once  the  member  is  decided  as  such  in 
accordance with law, he or she is immediately disqualified from being a 
member of the Legislative Council. 

2.  This  Decision  is  applicable  to  the  members  of  the  sixth  term 
Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
whose nominations were decided to be invalid in accordance with law by 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region due to the circumstances 
mentioned  above  during  the  nomination  period  of  the  election  for 
the  seventh  term  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region originally scheduled for 6 September 2020. 

This Decision is applicable to any person standing for an election in 
respect of or taking up the office of a member of the Legislative Council 
in future where the circumstances mentioned above apply. 

3.  The disqualification of the members of the Legislative Council of 
the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  pursuant  to  the  above 
provisions  is  to  be  announced  by  the  Government  of  the  Hong  Kong 
Special Administrative Region. 

223 

 
 
 
Note: 
*  This English translation is prepared by the Department of Justice, Government of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.  It is for reference purposes and has no 
legislative effect. 

224 

 
 
 
 
Instrument 30 

Explanations on the Draft Decision of the National People’s Congress 
on Improving the Electoral System of 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 

(Adopted at the Fourth Session of the Thirteenth National People’s 
Congress on 5 March 2021) 

Wang Chen 
Vice Chairman of the Standing Committee of 
The National People’s Congress 

Deputies, 

Entrusted by the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress 
(NPC),  I  hereby  make  the  following  explanations  about  the  Draft 
Decision  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  On  Improving  the  Electoral 
System of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR). 

I.  The  imperative  and  importance  of  improving  the  electoral  system  of 
the Hong Kong SAR 

The  return  of  Hong  Kong  to  the  motherland  put  the  region  once  again 
under  the  overall  governance  system  of  the  country.  The  Constitution 
of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong 
Kong  SAR  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  jointly  form  the 
constitutional  basis  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR.  The  electoral  system  of 
the  Hong  Kong  SAR,  which  includes  the  methods  for  the  selection  of 
the  Chief  Executive  and  for  the  formation  of  the  Legislative  Council, 
is  an  important  part  of  the  political  structure  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR. 
The  electoral  system  should  conform  to  the  policy  of  “one  country, 
two  systems”,  meet  the  realities  in  the  Hong  Kong  SAR  and  serve  to 
ensure  “patriots  administering  Hong  Kong”.  It  should  be  conducive  to 
safeguarding  China’s  national  sovereignty,  security  and  development 
interests  and  help  maintain  the  long-term  prosperity  and  stability  of 
Hong Kong. Since Hong Kong’s return, the State has all along fully and 
faithfully  implemented  the  principles  of  “one  country,  two  systems”, 

225 

“Hong  Kong  people  administering  Hong  Kong”  and  a  high  degree  of 
autonomy,  and  has  administered  Hong  Kong  affairs  according  to  law, 
upheld  the  constitutional  order  in  the  Hong  Kong  SAR  as  established 
by  the  Constitution  and  the  Basic  Law,  supported  the  development 
of  democracy  in  the  Hong  Kong  SAR  and  guaranteed  the  exercise 
of  democratic  rights  by  Hong  Kong  residents  in  accordance  with  the 
law.  However, it must be noted that in  recent years,  especially after the 
turbulence  over  the  amendment  bill  in  2019,  anti-China,  destabilizing 
forces and radical localists in Hong Kong have openly called for “Hong 
Kong  independence”.  They  used  the  electoral  platforms  of  the  Hong 
Kong SAR and the deliberation platforms of the Legislative Council and 
the District Councils or their position as public servants to blatantly carry 
out anti-China and destabilizing activities. They resorted to every possible 
means to paralyze the functioning of the Legislative Council and obstruct 
the law-based administration of the Hong Kong SAR government. They 
masterminded  and  perpetrated  the  so-called  “primary  election”,  in  an 
attempt to obtain a majority in the Legislative Council so that they could 
step further to grab the power to administer Hong Kong. Some foreign 
countries  and  external  forces,  by  way  of  their  own  legislative  bills  or 
administrative means and through their consular agencies and NGOs in 
the Hong Kong SAR and other channels, blatantly meddled with Hong 
Kong  affairs.  They  also  grossly  imposed  so-called  “sanctions”  on  the 
relevant Chinese personnel and flagrantly emboldened and covered those 
anti-China, destabilizing forces in Hong Kong. These activities seriously 
jeopardized  the  constitutional  order  and  the  order  of  rule  of  law  in  the 
Hong Kong SAR. They posed a grave challenge to the authority of the 
Constitution,  the  Basic  Law  and  the  Law  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China on Safeguarding National Security in the Hong Kong SAR. Such 
activities  put  China’s  national  sovereignty,  security  and  development 
interests  into  serious  jeopardy  and  severely  disrupted  social  stability  of 
the  Hong  Kong  SAR.  They  must  be  resolutely  opposed,  and  forceful 
measures must be taken to prevent and defuse risks arising therefrom. 

The  rioting  and  turbulence  that  occurred  in  the  Hong  Kong  society 
reveals  that  the  existing  electoral  system  in  the  Hong  Kong  SAR  has 
clear  loopholes  and  deficiencies,  which  the  anti-China,  destabilizing 
elements jumped on to take into their hands the power to administer the 
Hong Kong SAR. To remedy the situation, necessary measures must be 

226 

 
 
taken  to  improve  the  electoral  system  and  remove  existing  institutional 
deficiencies  and  risks  to  ensure  the  administration  of  Hong  Kong  by 
Hong  Kong  people  with  patriots  as  the  main  body.  This  in  turn  will 
ensure  effective  and  law-based  administration  in  the  Hong  Kong  SAR 
and  keep  the  implementation  of  “one  country,  two  systems”  always  on 
the right track. 

Back  in  June  1984,  Mr.  Deng  Xiaoping  pointed  out  that  there  must  be 
“some  requirements  or  qualifications  with  regard  to  the  administration 
of Hong Kong affairs by the people of Hong Kong. It must be required 
that patriots form the main body of administrators”. According to him, 
“A patriot is one who respects the Chinese nation, sincerely supports the 
motherland’s  resumption  of  exercise  of  sovereignty  over  Hong  Kong, 
and  wishes  not  to  impair  Hong  Kong’s  prosperity  and  stability.”  Hong 
Kong has been a Chinese territory since ancient times. The Hong Kong 
SAR  is  an  inalienable  part  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  a  local 
administrative  region  with  a  high  degree  of  autonomy  that  directly 
comes  under  the  Central  People’s  Government.  “Patriots  administering 
Hong  Kong”  is  a  necessary  requirement  of  the  “one  country,  two 
systems”  policy.  All  provisions  in  the  Basic  Law  regarding  Hong 
Kong’s  Chief  Executive  and  those  working  in  the  executive  authorities, 
the  legislature  and  the  judiciary  reflect  the  principle  of  “Hong  Kong 
people administering Hong Kong” with patriots as the main body. It is 
stipulated  that  the  Chief  Executive,  principal  officials,  members  of  the 
Executive  Council  and  of  the  Legislative  Council,  judges  of  the  courts 
at  all  levels  and  other  members  of  the  judiciary  in  the  Hong  Kong 
SAR  must  uphold  the  Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR  and  swear 
allegiance to the Hong Kong SAR of the People’s Republic of China. In 
a decision released in October 2019, the fourth plenary session of the 19th 
Central  Committee  of  the  Communist  Party  of  China  (CPC)  called  for 
upholding  and  improving  the  system  and  institutions  of  “one  country, 
two systems”, improving the SAR’s institutions and mechanisms related 
to  the  implementation  of  the  Constitution  and  the  Basic  Law,  and 
upholding  the  “administration  of  Hong  Kong  by  Hong  Kong  people” 
with  patriots  as  the  main  body.  On  27  January  2021,  when  listening 
to  a  2020  work  report  from  Chief  Executive  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR, 
President Xi Jinping noted that Hong Kong’s major shift from chaos to 
stability  has  once  again  demonstrated  the  unfailing  truth  that  to  ensure 

227 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the steady practice of “one country, two systems” in Hong Kong in the 
long  run,  the  principle  of  “patriots  administering  Hong  Kong”  must  be 
always upheld. This is a fundamental principle crucial to the sovereignty, 
security  and  development  interests  of  our  country  and  crucial  to  the 
sustained prosperity and stability of Hong Kong. Only when the principle 
of  “patriots  administering  Hong  Kong”  is  observed  can  the  Central 
Authorities’ overall jurisdiction over the SAR be effectively implemented, 
the constitutional order as established by the Constitution and the Basic 
Law  be  effectively  maintained,  and  the  various  deep-seated  problems 
be  effectively  resolved.  Only  in  this  way  can  Hong  Kong  achieve 
durable  stability  and  make  its  due  contributions  to  realizing  national 
rejuvenation. The electoral system of the Hong Kong SAR, including the 
methods for the selection of the Chief Executive and for the formation of 
the Legislative Council, must strictly follow and fully reflect the political 
principle  and  criterion  of  the  “administration  of  Hong  Kong  by  Hong 
Kong  people”  with  patriots  as  the  main  body  and  provide  institutional 
safeguards for this purpose. 

II.  Overall  requirements,  important  principles,  basic  approach,  and  the 
way  to  proceed  for  improving  the  electoral  system  of  the  Hong  Kong 
SAR 

The  overall  requirements  for  improving  the  electoral  system  of  the 
Hong Kong SAR are: following the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on 
Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era; fully implementing 
the  guiding  principles  of  the  CPC’s  19th  National  Congress  and  the 
second,  third,  fourth  and  fifth  plenary  sessions  of  its  19th  Central 
Committee;  upholding  and  improving  the  system  and  institutions  of 
“one  country,  two  systems”;  fully  implementing,  reflecting  and  carrying 
out  the  principle  of  “patriots  administering  Hong  Kong”  with  proper 
mechanisms  and  institutions;  keeping  the  power  to  administer  firmly 
in  the  hands  of  those  who  love  the  country  and  love  Hong  Kong;  and 
ensuring Hong Kong’s long-term stability and prosperity. 

implementing  these  overall  requirements, 

imperative  to 
In 
observe  the  following  important  principles.  First,  fully  and  accurately 
implementing  the  principles  of  “one  country,  two  systems”,  “Hong 
Kong  administer  Hong  Kong”  and  a  high  degree  of  autonomy.  It  is 

is 

it 

228 

 
imperative  to  uphold  and  improve  the  system  and  institutions  of  “one 
country, two systems”, and ensure the administration of Hong Kong by 
Hong  Kong  people  with  patriots  as  the  main  body.  It  is  imperative  to 
integrate  adherence  to  the  principle  of  “One  Country”  with  respect  for 
the  differences  of  “Two  Systems”,  and  combine  upholding  the  Central 
Authorities’  overall  jurisdiction  over  the  SAR  with  safeguarding  a 
high  degree  of  autonomy  in  the  SAR,  so  as  to  provide  well-established 
systemic  guarantee  for  “patriots  administering  Hong  Kong”.  Second, 
firmly  upholding  sovereignty,  security  and  development  interests  of  the 
State.  It  is  imperative  to  ensure  that  the  State  takes  firm  control  over 
the  improvement  of  the  electoral  system  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR,  fully 
implement  the  Law  on  Safeguarding  National  Security  in  the  Hong 
Kong SAR, maintain overall social stability of the Hong Kong SAR, and 
resolutely  prevent,  stop  and  punish  interference  in  Hong  Kong  affairs 
by foreign countries and external forces and their use of Hong Kong to 
conduct  acts  of  secession,  subversion,  infiltration  and  sabotage.  Third, 
administering  Hong  Kong  in  accordance  with  the  law.  It  is  imperative 
to  maintain  the  constitutional  order  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR  enshrined 
in  the  Constitution  and  the  Basic  Law,  improve  the  relevant  electoral 
system  and  related  mechanisms  on  the  track  of  the  Constitution  and 
the Basic Law, and organize relevant elections in strict compliance with 
the Basic Law, the Law on Safeguarding National Security in the Hong 
Kong  SAR,  relevant  decisions  of  the  NPC  and  its  Standing  Committee 
as  well  as  local  laws  of  Hong  Kong,  so  as  to  improve  the  ability  and 
competence  of  governance  in  accordance  with  the  law.  Fourth,  acting 
in  line  with  the  actual  circumstances  of  Hong  Kong.  It  is  imperative  to 
develop  a  system  of  democratic  elections  that  fits  Hong  Kong’s  actual 
conditions and reflects the overall interests of the society. It is imperative 
to  guarantee  in  accordance  with  the  law  the  extensive  and  balanced 
political participation of the Hong Kong compatriots, and guarantee in 
accordance with the law the right to vote and the right to be elected which 
are lawfully enjoyed by Hong Kong permanent residents. It is imperative 
to  unite  all  that  can  be  united,  and  build  extensive,  positive  energy  in 
the Hong Kong society. Fifth, improving the governance efficacy of the 
Hong Kong SAR. It is imperative to improve the system under which the 
Chief Executive is responsible to the Central People’s Government, and 
maintain  the  executive-led  governance  structure  and  operational  system 
of the Hong Kong SAR. It is imperative to support the Chief Executive, 

229 

 
the  executive  authorities,  the  legislature  and  the  judiciary  in  exercising 
power and performing duty in accordance with the law, so as to ensure 
the  smooth  and  efficient  operation  of  the  political  and  governance 
systems and mechanisms of the Hong Kong SAR. 

The  overarching  approach  for  improving  the  electoral  system  of  the 
Hong  Kong  SAR  is  as  follows:  The  overall  design  of  the  system  will 
be  centered  around  the  reformation  and  greater  empowerment  of  the 
Election  Committee  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR.  The  size,  composition 
and  formation  method  of  the  Election  Committee  will  be  adjusted 
and  improved.  The  Chief  Executive  will  continue  to  be  elected  by  the 
Election  Committee.  The  Election  Committee  will  be  entrusted  with 
the  new  function  of  electing  a  relatively  large  share  of  Legislative 
Council  members  and  directly  participating  in  the  nomination  of  all 
candidates for the Legislative Council. Through the Election Committee, 
the  balanced  and  orderly  political  participation  will  be  expanded  and 
broader  representation  ensured  in  the  Hong  Kong  society.  Relevant 
elements of the election will be adjusted as appropriate, and a mechanism 
of qualification review will be established throughout the entire process. 
This design is aimed to form a new democratic electoral system suited to 
Hong Kong’s realities and with Hong Kong characteristics. 

The existing electoral system in the Hong Kong SAR was established in 
accordance with relevant provisions of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong 
SAR,  interpretations  and  decisions  of  the  NPC  Standing  Committee, 
and  relevant  provisions  of  local  laws  in  Hong  Kong.  Provisions  of  the 
Basic Law, including Articles 45 and 68, lay out the principles concerning 
the  electoral  system  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR,  and  Annex  I  and  Annex 
II  to  the  Basic  Law  as  well  as  relevant  amendments  make  specific  and 
express  stipulations.  Based  on  comprehensive  analysis  and  assessment, 
Central  and  State  Authorities  deem  it  necessary  to  revise  and  improve 
the  electoral  system  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR  at  the  state  level,  mainly 
includes  revising  the  method  for  the  selection  of  the  Chief  Executive  of 
the Hong Kong SAR and the method for the formation of the Legislative 
Council of the Hong Kong SAR. At the same time, in order to maintain 
continuity and stability of relevant systems of the Hong Kong SAR, the 
revisions  to  be  made  this  time  in  improving  the  electoral  system  of  the 
Hong Kong SAR may be limited to Annex I and Annex II to the Basic 

230 

Law,  without  revising  the  main  body  of  the  Basic  Law.  After  serious 
consideration  of  various  factors  and  discussions  with  relevant  parties, 
central  and  state  authorities  propose  a  two-step  approach,  namely, 
“decision  plus  amendment”.  In  the  first  step,  the  NPC,  in  accordance 
with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Constitution,  the  Basic  Law,  and 
the  Law  on  Safeguarding  National  Security  in  the  Hong  Kong  SAR, 
makes the decision on improving the electoral system of the Hong Kong 
SAR, which lays out the basic principles for revising and improving the 
electoral  system  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR  as  well  as  the  core  elements 
of  such  revision  and  improvement.  Meanwhile,  the  NPC  authorizes  its 
Standing Committee to amend Annex I and Annex II to the Basic Law in 
accordance with the decision. In the second step, in accordance with the 
Constitution, the Basic Law, the Law on Safeguarding National Security 
in  the  Hong  Kong  SAR,  and  the  NPC  decision,  the  NPC  Standing 
Committee  amends  Annex  I:  Method  for  the  Selection  of  the  Chief 
Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and Annex 
II:  Method  for  the  Formation  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  Its  Voting  Procedures  of  the 
Basic  Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR.  The  amended  Annex  I  and  Annex 
II  will  contain  specific  and  express  provisions  on  the  new  democratic 
electoral system of the Hong Kong SAR. After the amendment of Annex 
I and Annex II at the state level is completed, the Hong Kong SAR will 
amend relevant local laws accordingly. 

At its 26th session on 27 and 28 February 2021, the Standing Committee 
of  the  13th  NPC  heard  and  deliberated  on  the  Report  of  the  State 
Council  on  Revising  and  Improving  the  Electoral  System  of  the  Hong 
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  Relevant  Recommendations. 
It  endorsed  the  Report’s  recommendations  on  revising  and  improving 
the electoral system of the Hong Kong SAR. On this basis, in accordance 
with relevant provisions of the Constitution, the Basic Law of the Hong 
Kong SAR, and the Law on Safeguarding National Security in the Hong 
Kong  SAR  as  well  as  relevant  decisions  of  the  NPC  and  its  Standing 
Committee, and in light of the actual conditions in the Hong Kong SAR, 
the Legislative Affairs Commission of the NPC Standing Committee drew 
up  the  Draft  Decision  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on  Improving 
the Electoral System of the Hong Kong  Special  Administrative Region, 
which,  after  deliberation  by  the  NPC  Standing  Committee,  has  been 

231 

 
submitted to the Fourth Session of the 13th NPC for deliberation. 

III. Overview of the Draft Decision 

The  Draft  Decision  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  on  Improving 
the  Electoral  System  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region 
consists of an introduction and the main body. The introduction briefly 
explains  the  purposes  and  legal  basis  of  the  Decision.  The  relevant 
decision  to  be  taken  by  the  NPC  is  based  on  Article  31  and  sub-
paragraphs 2, 14 and 16 of Article 62 of the Constitution of the People’s 
Republic of China and relevant provisions of the Basic Law of the Hong 
Kong SAR of the People’s Republic of China and the Law of the People’s 
Republic of China on Safeguarding National Security in the Hong Kong 
SAR.  It  takes  into  full  consideration  the  practical  need  for  improving 
the  relevant  electoral  system  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR  and  of  the  reality 
in the Hong Kong SAR. It will make a new constitutional arrangement 
for a set of institutions to improve the electoral system of the Hong Kong 
SAR and advance the democratic political system that fits Hong Kong’s 
actual  conditions.  Such  an  institutional  arrangement  is  in  line  with  the 
stipulations and principles of the Constitution and the Basic Law of the 
Hong Kong SAR, and holds solid political and legal ground. It will help 
ensure that patriots form the main body of administrators in Hong Kong, 
and guarantee the sound and sustained implementation of “one country, 
two systems” in Hong Kong. 

The  main  body  of  the  Draft  Decision  lays  out  the  basic  principles  for 
revising  and  improving  the  electoral  system  of  the  Hong  Kong  SAR  as 
well as the core elements of such revision and improvement. At the same 
time, it authorizes the NPC Standing Committee to amend Annex I and 
Annex  II  to  the  Basic  Law  in  accordance  with  this  Decision.  During 
deliberations on revising and improving the electoral system of the Hong 
Kong  SAR,  central  and  state  authorities  have  thought  through  issues 
related to making this Decision and then amending Annex I and Annex II 
to  the  Basic  Law,  and  have  made  arrangements  accordingly.  After  the 
adoption  of  this  Decision  by  the  NPC,  the  NPC  Standing  Committee 
will  work,  pursuant  to  this  Decision  and  in  coordination  with  other 
competent  authorities,  to  promptly  launch  the  procedure  of  amending 
Annex  I  and  Annex  II  to  the  Basic  Law.  Upon  the  promulgation  and 

232 

 
 
 
entry into force of the amended Annex I and Annex II to the Basic Law, 
the  previous  Annex  I,  Annex  II  and  their  amendments  will  be  repealed 
simultaneously. 

The Draft Decision of the National People’s Congress on Improving the 
Electoral System of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and 
the above Explanations are now submitted for deliberation. 

Source: http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2021-03/05/c_139788111.htm 

Note: 
*  This is an English translation of the original instrument in Chinese and is published for 

information. 

233 

 
 
Instrument 31 

* Decision of the National People’s Congress On 
Improving the Electoral System of the 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 

(Adopted at the Fourth Session of the Thirteenth National People’s Congress 
on 11 March 2021) 

The Fourth Session of the Thirteenth National People’s Congress 
(NPC)  deliberated  the  motion  regarding  the  request  for  examination  of 
the  “Draft  Decision  of  the  National  People’s  Congress  On  Improving 
the Electoral System of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region” 
submitted  by  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  NPC.  The  session 
considered  that  the  return  of  Hong  Kong  to  the  motherland  put  the 
region  once  again  under  the  overall  governance  system  of  the  country, 
and  the  Constitution  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  (PRC)  and  the 
Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) 
of  the  PRC  jointly  form  the  constitutional  basis  of  the  HKSAR.  The 
electoral  system  of  the  HKSAR,  which  includes  the  methods  for  the 
selection of the Chief Executive and for the formation of the Legislative 
Council  (LegCo),  is  an  important  part  of  the  political  structure  of 
the  HKSAR.  It  should  conform  to  the  policy  of  “one  country,  two 
systems”,  meet  the  realities  in  the  HKSAR  and  serve  to  ensure  that 
Hong  Kong  is  administered  by  people  who  love  the  country  and  Hong 
Kong;  be  conducive  to  safeguarding  national  sovereignty,  security, 
and  development  interests  of  the  country  and  maintain  the  long-term 
prosperity and stability of Hong Kong.  To improve the electoral system 
of the HKSAR and develop a democratic system suited to the HKSAR’s 
realities, the NPC has made the following decision pursuant to Articles 31 
and 62(2), (14) and (16) of the Constitution of the PRC and the relevant 
provisions of the Basic Law of the HKSAR of the PRC and the Law of 
the PRC on Safeguarding National Security in the HKSAR: 

1.  Improving  the  electoral  system  of  the  HKSAR  must  fully  and 
faithfully  implement  the  policy  of  “one  country,  two  systems”  under 
which  the  people  of  Hong  Kong  administer  Hong  Kong  with  a  high 
degree  of  autonomy,  uphold  the  constitutional  order  in  the  HKSAR  as 

234 

 
 
 
 
 
established  by  the  Constitution  of  the  PRC  and  the  Basic  Law  of  the 
HKSAR of the PRC, ensure the administration of Hong Kong by Hong 
Kong  people  with  patriots  as  the  main  body,  effectively  improve  the 
governance efficacy of the HKSAR, and safeguard the right to vote and 
the right to stand for election of permanent residents of the HKSAR. 

2.  The HKSAR shall establish an Election Committee which is broadly 
representative,  suited  to  the  HKSAR’s  realities,  and  representative  of 
the  overall  interests  of  its  society.  The  Election  Committee  shall  be 
responsible  for  electing  the  Chief  Executive  designate  and  part  of  the 
members of the LegCo.  The Election Committee shall also be responsible 
for nominating candidates for the Chief Executive and LegCo members, 
as well as for other matters. 

The  Election  Committee  shall  be  composed  of  1,500  members 
from  the  following  five  sectors:  industrial,  commercial  and  financial 
sectors;  the  professions;  grassroots,  labour,  religious  and  other  sectors; 
LegCo  members  and  representatives  of  district  organizations;  Hong 
Kong  deputies  to  the  NPC,  Hong  Kong  members  of  the  National 
Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference and 
representatives of Hong Kong members of related national organizations. 

3.  The Chief Executive shall be elected by the Election Committee and 
appointed by the Central People’s Government. 

Candidates  for  the  office  of  the  Chief  Executive  shall  be  nominated 
jointly by not less than 188 members of the Election Committee, among 
whom  the  number  of  members  of  each  sector  should  be  not  less  than 
15.  The  Election  Committee  shall  elect  the  Chief  Executive  designate 
by  secret  ballot  on  a  one-person-one-vote  basis.  The  election  of  the 
Chief Executive designate shall require a simple majority vote of all the 
members of the Election Committee. 

4.  The  LegCo  of  the  HKSAR  shall  be  composed  of  90  members  in 
each term. Members of the LegCo shall include members returned by the 
Election  Committee,  those  returned  by  functional  constituencies,  and 
those by geographical constituencies through direct elections. 

235 

 
 
 
 
5.  A  candidate  qualification  review  committee  of  the  HKSAR  shall 
be  established.  The  committee  shall  be  responsible  for  reviewing  and 
confirming  the  qualifications  of  candidates  for  the  Election  Committee 
members,  the  Chief  Executive,  and  the  LegCo  members.  The  HKSAR 
shall improve the system and mechanisms related to qualification review, 
to ensure that the qualifications of candidates are in conformity with the 
Basic Law, the Law on Safeguarding National Security in the HKSAR, 
the NPC Standing Committee’s interpretation of Article 104 of the Basic 
Law,  the  NPC  Standing  Committee’s  decision  on  the  qualification  of 
HKSAR  LegCo  members,  and  provisions  of  relevant  local  laws  of  the 
HKSAR. 

6.  The  NPC  Standing  Committee  is  authorized  to,  in  accordance 
with  the  decision  on  improving  the  electoral  system  of  the  HKSAR, 
amend Annex I: Method for the Selection of the Chief Executive of the 
Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  and  Annex  II:  Method  for 
the  Formation  of  the  Legislative  Council  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special 
Administrative Region and Its Voting Procedures, to the Basic Law. 

7.  In  accordance  with  this  decision  and  the  Basic  Law’s  Annex  I  and 
Annex II amended by the NPC Standing Committee, the HKSAR shall 
amend  relevant  local  laws,  and  organize  and  regulate  election  activities 
accordingly. 

8.  The Chief Executive of the HKSAR shall submit in a timely manner 
reports  to  the  Central  People’s  Government  on  relevant  important 
situations  including  the  institutional  arrangements  for  elections  of  the 
HKSAR and the organization of the elections. 

9.  The decision shall go into effect as of the date of promulgation. 

Note: 
*  This is an English translation of the original instrument in Chinese and is published for 

information. 

236 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Notice

The information contained in this booklet has no legal status, and is made
available  for  information  only  and  should  not  be  relied  on  as  an  official
version of the Constitution of the People’s Republic of China, the Basic Law 
of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of 
China and related constitutional instruments herein.

For more information about the Constitution and the Basic Law, 
please visit the Basic Law website www.basiclaw.gov.hk. 

 
 
Published by the Constitutional and Mainland Afairs Bureau 
Designed by the Information Services Department 
Printed by the Government Logistics Department 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government 

