

# Page 1
EXPATRIATE
SERVICES
DIVISION
Bahagian Khidmat Ekspatriat
IMMIGRATION DEPARTMENT
OF MALAYSIA
Online Guidebook V6 2025


# Page 2
EXPATRIATE
SERVICES
DIVISION
BAHAGIAN KHIDMAT
EKSPATRIAT
TABLE OF CONTENT
TOPIC PAGE
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 01
78-81
4-5
6-7
8-9
10-11
12-15
16-17
18-20
21-26
27-28
29
30-31
32
33
34-41
42
43-45
45
46-48
49
50-51
52-53
54-61
62
63-64
65
66-67
68-72
73-75
76-77
82-83
84
85
Overall Process
Stage 1:  Company Registration
Company Eligibility Criteria
Document Required for Company Registration
Stage 2:  Company Activation
F.A.Q about ESD, Company Registration, Letter of Undertaking 
Projection, Position, Employment of Expatriates in Malaysia 
Application for Support Letter from Agencies via Xpats Gateway 
F.A.Q about Xpats Gateway
Application for Exemption from Minimum Salary Requirement of 
RM5000 for Employment Pass Category III
Eligibility Criteria for Employment Pass Appli
cations 
Stage 3:  Expatriate Application
Immigration Services Available through MYXpats Centre Types of 
Employment Pass
Document Required for Employment Pass Application 
Dependant Pass
Document Required for Dependant Pass Application
Social Visit Pass (Long Term)
Document Required for Social Visit Pass (Long Term) Application 
Visit Pass (Temporary Employment)
Document Required for Visit Pass (Temporary Employment) 
Application
Professional Visit Pass-Expert (PVP)
Document Required for Professional Visit Pass-Expert (PVP) 
Application Social Visit Pass-Internship (SVP-I)
Document Required for Social Visit Pass-Internship (SVP-I) 
Application
Cooling of Period Requirement  
Stage 4:  Pass Endorsement 
F.A.Q about ePASS
F.A.Q about MYXpats Centre
F.A.Q about Expatriate Pass Applications
Annex A - Sample Letter for Exemption of Minimum Salary Requirement
of RM5000
B - Document Checklist for EP and PVP Application 
C - List of Restricted Sector for Foreign Involvement under the
Guidelines on Foreign Participation in the Distributive Trade 
Services Malaysia
Other         F.A.Q about Investor Pass 
2-3


# Page 3
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 03
OVERALL PROCESS
Overview
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 02
Company Activation
Company logs into the ESD 
Online to complete the Online 
Company Activation process 
and receive further access to 
the services of ESD Online.
Company submits all related
company information through
the Expatriate Services
Division (ESD), Immigration
Department of Malaysia at
esd.imi.gov.my.
Company Registration 
via ESD Online
STAGE 1
STAGE 2
Pay the applicable fee, 
submit application to the 
ESD Online with required 
docume
ntation.
Online Endorsement 
via ESD Online
STAGE 3
STAGE 4
Pay the applicable fee, 
submit application to the 
ESD Online with required 
documentation.
Expatriate Application 
via ESD Online


# Page 4
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 05EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 04
STAGE 1: (Step By Step)
Company 
Registration via 
ESD Online
STEP 101
• Create account by clicking “Registration”
and ﬁll in the necessary information.
• Click the activation link sent to the email
address registered in the ESD Online.
(a) Purchase e-Info SSM
• Company is required to
purchase e-Info SSM through
ESD Online.
Create Account
STEP 202
• Log in using the login id and password
created.
• Submit related company information,
documents and projection of
expatriate(s) required for the year.
Submit Company Application
STEP 303
• Veriﬁcation and validation of the
submitted information.
Notiﬁcation (Activation)
STEP 404
• Notiﬁcation of status will be sent via
the ESD Online with further
instructions.
Notiﬁcation (Status)
STEP 505
• Approved company may now proceed to
STAGE 2 (refer to page 10) for company
activation.
OR Rejection
• Company does not meet the requirement
for expatriate application.
Company Activation


# Page 5
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 07EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 06
Note: 
(1) For joint venture companies, a minimum of 30% foreign shareholding is 
required.
(2) According to Guidelines on Foreign Participation in the Distributive Trade 
Services Malaysia under the purview of the Ministry of Domestic Trade,
Co-operatives and Consumerism, foreign involvement is restricted in sectors. 
Therefore, applications for any long-term pass (more than 3 months) including 
Employment Pass for companies in these sectors are NOT ALLOWED. You may 
refer to https://www.kpdnhep.gov.my/ for more information.
(3) The Information, Technology & Communications (ICT) sector is only allowed to 
apply for Professional Visit Pass-Expert (PVP) via ESD Online.
(4) If your organisation is applying for Professional Visit Pass-Expert (PVP) only, 
the company is still required to comply with the paid-up capital requirement 
for company registration.
STAGE 1
Company eligibility criteria:
1. Must be registered with:
a. The Companies Commission of Malaysia (SSM) under Companies Act 1965,
OR
b. The Registry of Societies Malaysia (ROS) under the Societies Act 1966; OR
c. Firms incorporated under speciﬁc acts. E.g., Law ﬁrms and accounting ﬁrms;
OR
d. Organisations supported by Ministries / Government Agencies, OR
e. International organisations certiﬁed by the Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs.
2. Company paid-up capital requirement (not applicable to public limited
companies, companies limited by guarantee, associations & organisations
incorporated under speciﬁc acts).
Paid-up Capital
RM250,000
RM350,000
RM500,000
RM1,000,000
Equity
100% Local Owned
Joint Venture
100% Foreign Owned
Foreign-owned companies (foreign equity at 51% and
above) operating in the Wholesale, Retail and Trade
(WRT) sectors (mandatory requirement to submit valid
WRT approval letter, if applicable). Please refer to the
Ministry of Domestic Trade, Co-operatives, and
Consumerism for WRT license application guideline)
Foreign-owned companies (foreign equity at 51% and
above) involved in the sub sectors on unregulated
services are required to refer to the Services Industry
Division, Ministry of Domestic Trade, Co-operatives,
and Consumerism on the application guideline to
obtain approval.


# Page 6
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 09EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 08
1. Copy of all current company directors' MyKad / Passport copy as per SSM
registration.
2. Comprehensive Company Proﬁle (include the following items):
i. background of company
ii. business activities
iii. organization structure
iv. location of company / number of branches (branch address)
v. photo of the premise (front and interior)
vi. photo of the products / services oﬀered
3. Copy of Company’s Latest Phone Bill
4. Tenancy Agreement / Sales & Purchase Agreement (S&P)
5. Latest SSM Form 9 or Form 83A (any related documents)
6. Latest SSM Form 24 or Form 80A (any related documents)
7. Latest SSM Form 49 or Form 79 (any related documents)
8. Latest Audited Financial Report
9. Copy of Local Authorities License - Lesen Pihak Berkuasa Tempatan (PBT) (if
applicable)
10. Other business licenses (Refer to Page 20, or any other supporting documents)
11. Other documents speciﬁed upon request
Documents required for company registration:
12. Audit / Accounting Firms must submit latest SSM Form 5 accompanied by “Sijil
Akuan Pendaftaran Firma Perunding” by Kementerian Kewangan Malaysia /
Ministry of Finance, and Legal Firm must provide a letter from the Bar Council
Malaysia.
If your organisation is a ﬁrm, please provide these additional documents:
13. List of committee member's sponsor
14. Certiﬁcate of Registration under the Societies Act 1966 (Form 3)
15. Association of Constitution
16. Latest Annual Audited Returns
If your organisation is registered under the Societies Act 1966, please
provide these additional documents:
17. Certiﬁcate of Registration under Sports Development Act 1997 (Act 576) and
Regulations.
Note: All SSM Forms (Form 5, Form 9, Form 24, and Form 49 must be certiﬁed true
copies by the Companies Commission of Malaysia.)
Register your company at esd.imi.gov.my
1. Cover letter for ESD Online registration
2. Authorisation Letter signed by
3. Registrar / Assistant Registrar / Director / Deputy Director of International
Aﬀairs / Director / Assistant Director
4. Copy of Identity Card for all representatives in LOU (Endorser, Login ID User,
Submission Oﬃcer)
5. Agency Proﬁle (if applicable)
6. Letter from Approval Agency (if applicable)
7. Other Supporting Documents (any document related application)
If your organisation is an association of sports bodies, please provide
these additional documents:
Documents required for Public University / Government Agency
registration:
Note:
ESD reserves the right to
request for additional documents
other than above.


# Page 7
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 11EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 10
STAGE 2: (Step By Step)
Company Activation
STEP 1
Log in to ESD Online
• Company log in to ESD Online
and proceed to Step 5 shown in
the system interface.
STEP 2
Fill in LoU Form
• Fill in and complete the
information for:
   1.Endorser
   2.Company Login ID User
   3.Submission Officer
   4.Director for LoU signatory
• Print a copy of Letter of
Undertaking (LoU) from the ESD
Online onto the company’s
official letterhead and the form is
to be signed by the selected
Director for LoU signatory.
STEP 3
Upload Supporting 
Documents and Submit 
Application Form
• Upload the following supporting
documents:
1. A signed copy of Letter of
Undertaking (LoU) with
company’s official letterhead.
2. Copy of Director’s IC/
Passport for LoU signatory.
STEP 4
Further access
• After Company Activation
stage is completed, company
will be given further access
to submit expatriate
applications
 (STAGE 3).


# Page 8
Company Registration
1. Is my company eligible to register via the ESD Online?
There are two requirements before companies can proceed with ESD Online
registration. Kindly go through the requirements as below:
1.1 Company must be registered with:
a. The Companies Commission of Malaysia (SSM) under Companies Act 1965,
OR
b. The Registry of Societies Malaysia under the Organisation Act 1966; OR
c. Firms incorporated under speciﬁc acts. E.g., Law ﬁrms and accounting ﬁrms;
OR
e. Organisations supported by Ministries / Government Agencies, OR
f. International organisations certiﬁed by the Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs
1.2 Company paid-up capital*
* Not applicable to public limited companies, companies limited by guarantee,
associations & organisations incorporated under speciﬁc acts.
About Expatriate Services Division (ESD)
1. What is the ESD?
The Expatriate Services Division (ESD), under the Immigration Department of
Malaysia, is a one-stop centre which facilitates company registration with a
customer centric approach.
2. Why do I need to go to the ESD?
The ESD enables companies to submit
expatriate-related Immigration information online to facilitate the application
process involved in registering and approving companies that wish to hire
expatriates.
3. What are the type of services oﬀered at the ESD?
The ESD oﬀers registration services for companies who wish to employ eligible
expatriates. In addition, ESD also facilitates expatriate-related passes for Embassies
and any temporary manual applications. All companies will need to register via the
ESD Online as a ﬁrst step.
ESD-approved companies can apply for a range of expatriate passes which 
includes Employment Pass, Professional Visit Pass-Expert, and related passes such 
as Dependant Pass and Social Visit Pass (Long Term).
4. Who should I liaise with at ESD?
There are Immigration oﬃcers who are ready to assist you at the Expatriate
Services Division (Bahagian Khidmat Ekspatriat) oﬃce. You may liaise with any
Immigration oﬃcer at ESD to seek clariﬁcation on any related matter pertaining to
company registration.
5. Why do I have to register via the ESD Online?
Companies need to obtain approval through ESD Online before applying for
expatriate passes. Companies with ESD Online account get to enjoy an improved,
safe, and secure online experience in the application process.
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 13EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 12
STAGE 2
FREQUENTLY ASKED
QUESTIONS
Note: Please refer to page 6 
for further details.
Equity
100% Local Owned
Joint Venture
100% Foreign Owned
Foreign-owned companies (foreign equity at 51% and
above) operating in the Wholesale, Retail and Trade
(WRT) sectors (mandatory requirement to submit valid
WRT approval letter, if applicable); OR
Foreign-owned companies (foreign equity at 51% and
above) involved in the sub sectors on unregulated
services)
Paid-up Capital
RM250,000
RM350,000
RM500,000
RM1,000,000


# Page 9
2. How do I register online for company registration?
Applications can be made via ESD Online at esd.imi.gov.my. Kindly refer to page 10
for the step of company activation.
3. How long does it take for my company to be registered?
The company registration process takes ﬁve (5) working days to be completed until
Step 4 (Status notiﬁcation), subject to completion of documentation.
The company registration process ﬂow is as follow:
Step 1: Create account (register online)
Step 2: Submit application online
Step 3: Application in process by Immigration
Step 4: Status notiﬁcation (Approve / Reject)
Step 5: or approved companies, download facilitation package, print, and
  complete the documents attached
Step 6: Company activation (LoU signing)
Note: The 5 working days charter may be extended due to incomplete applications 
or additional inspection requirement.
4. What do I do after my company has been registered successfully?Companies 
can login to the ESD Online and begin submitting the pass applications to hire 
expatriates.
5. What should I do if I did not receive any activation email for the account?
Check your junk or spam folder. If the activation email still cannot be found, kindly 
email inspektorat.esd@imi.gov.my to request for the activation email to be sent 
again.
6. How can I retrieve my company’s login ID and password?
Please use the “FORGOT PASSWORD “feature on the ESD Online. A new password 
will be sent to the ESD registered email address which your company have used to 
activate the ESD Online account.
7. How can I amend information about my company (such as the company name, 
ROC number, email address, etc.)?
Regarding the change of information, kindly contact the Inspectorate Unit, 
Immigration Department Putrajaya for further assistance.
Letter of Undertaking (LoU)
1. Why do I need my company Director to sign the Letter of Undertaking (LoU)
and how long does the process take?
The company Director is required to sign the LoU to ensure that he acknowledges
the responsibility for all transactions by the company.
2. Can someone else represent my company Director to sign the LoU?
No. Only a company Director is allowed to sign the LoU for company activation.
3. Can the company change the appointed person in the LoU later?
Yes. The existing company Director nominated to sign the LoU may change the
appointed person. However, should the appointed Director changes in the
company, the new Director is required to sign the LoU.
LoU amendment can be done via ESD Online.
4. How can I amend the information in previous LoU?
Amendments to the LoU can be done via the ESD Online.
5. Do I need to update my company proﬁle once my company registration is
completed?
The company is encouraged to update and maintain their company proﬁle to
ensure that all business documents are up to date.
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 15EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 14
STAGE 2


# Page 10
Expatriates seeking to work in Malaysia would have to apply for an Employment 
Pass. The pass is applied for the individual expatriate through the hiring company. 
In Malaysia, there are several agencies involved in regulating speciﬁc economic 
sectors, therefore they also regulate the companies in the sectors.
These various agencies are responsible for approving and supporting expatriate 
posts in the relevant sectors. Companies are facilitated according to the sector 
involvement below:
EMPLOYMENT OF EXPATRIATES IN MALAYSIA
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 17EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 16
STAGE 2
Projection
The company is required to apply for a projection on expatriates it plans to hire for 
the current year. The projection is based on the number of expatriates it has 
identiﬁed, including existing expatriates for renewals and new hires. If the numbers 
under the projection requested for the year has been fully utilised, the company 
may then request for new projection with the appropriate justiﬁcation. Projection 
requests has been simpliﬁed and instantly successful.
Position
If the position applied for is currently not in the ESD Online, the company will need 
to submit a position request. The charter time for adding a new position is five (5) 
working days.


# Page 11
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 19EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 18
STAGE 2
PROCESS FLOW
The application for Support Letter in
Xpats Gateway is one-way process:
i. Decision from Agency
ii. No Return for additional
information
iii. Company may ew-apply for
Support Letter (no cooling period)
via esd.imi.gov.my
START
Company receives
application rejected
notiﬁcation
Category
Fast
track*
Fast track refers to Companies
in Tier 1, Tier 2 and Critical Sectors.
Refer to FAQ #12 and #13.
3 working
days
Normal
track
10 working
days
Log in to
Xparts Gateway
Submit application
for support letter
Company receives
Agency’s
support letter
Application review by
Approving Agency /
Regulatory Body
DECISION
Not
Supported
RE-APPLY
Supported
Company Agencies
Companies that are regulated by an Agencies need to submit an approval letter for 
each Employment Pass (Category I, II and III) application from the relevant 
Agencies.
Please refer to the table below for the reference list:
Sectors
Manufacturing and Selected
Services Sectors
Financial Services (Licensed
Institutions, Payment Services
Regulatees and Representative
Oﬃces)
Securities and Derivatives
Markets
Companies operating within
East Coast
Healthcare (Field: Traditional
and Complementary Medicine)
Tourism
Biotechnology and Bio-based
Sector
Aviation
Construction
Education
Agencies
Malaysian Investment Development
Authority (MIDA)
Central Bank of Malaysia (BNM)
Securities Commission Malaysia (SC)
East Coast Economic Region
Development Council (ECERDC)
Traditional & Complementary
Medicine Division, Ministry of Health
(MOH)
Ministry of Tourism, Arts & Culture
(MOTAC)
Malaysian Bioeconomy Development
Corporation (Bioeconomy
Corporation)
Civil Aviation Authority of Malaysia
(CAAM)
Construction Industry Development
Board (CIDB)
Ministry of Education (MOE)
No.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
APPLICATION FOR SUPPORT LETTER FROM AGENCIES VIA
XPATS GATEWAY


# Page 12
The FAQs listed herein cover four (4) sections:
[1] General FAQs About Xpats Gateway
[2] Xpats Gateway FAQs related to ESD Companies
[3] Xpats Gateway FAQs related to MDEC Companies
[4] Xpats Gateway FAQs related to IRDA (Iskandar Malaysia) Companies
Please scroll down to the respective sections.
About Xpats Gateway 
1. What is the Xpats Gateway?
A seamless, end-to-end solution that enables communication with relevant partner
agencies throughout the application process, ensuring a smooth and hassle-free
experience for both applicants and partner agencies. All decisions are issued
electronically via Xpats Gateway, allowing for more eﬃcient processing by partner
agencies and well-time approvals.
2. Do all expatriates require a Support Letter from the Agencies?
Support Letters are required for employers that are under the purview of the
respective Agencies. Please refer to the ESD Online Guidebook (page 19 & 20) for
the list of Agencies.
3. If my company is not under the purview of any Agency, do I need to apply for a
Support Letter?
If the company is categorised in the sectors listed below, the employer can proceed
to directly apply for an Employment Pass application in ESD Online (esd.imi.gov.my).
The Expatriate Committee and Immigration Department of Malaysia reserves the
right to request for a Support Letter, if necessary.
i. Business Services
ii. Wholesale & Retail
iii. Oil, Gas & Energy
iv. Logistics
v. Electrical & Electronics
vi. Automotive
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS 
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 21EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 20
STAGE 2
Department of Mineral & Geoscience
(JMG)
Ministry of Women, Family &
Community Development (KPWKM)
National Sports Council (MSN)
Football Association Malaysia (FAM)
Radio Televisyen Malaysia (RTM),
Ministry of Communications & Digital
(KKD)
Malaysia Nursing Board, Ministry of
Health (MOH)
Allied Health Science Division, Ministry
of Health (MOH)
National Film Development 
Corporation Malaysia (FINAS)
Board of Architect (LAM)
Equestrian Association of Malaysia
(EAM)
Malayan Racing Association (MRA)
Ministry of Agriculture & Food Security 
Malaysia (MAFS)
Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE)
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
24
Mining, Quarrying & Mineral
Processing
Women, Family & Community
Development related
organisation
Sports
Football
Broadcasting
Healthcare (Field: Nursing)
Healthcare (Field: Allied Health
Science)
Film Industry
Architectural
Equestrian Activities
Horse Racing
Crops, Livestock and 
Aquaculture
Higher Education
Malaysia Digital Economy Corporation 
(MDEC)
Information and 
Communication Technology 
23
25
Iskandar Regional Development 
Authority (IRDA)
Companies operating within 
Iskandar Region


# Page 13
4. What are the documents required to apply for the Support Letter?
Employer can refer to the respective Agencies for the list of required documents.
5. How to check the status of the Support Letter?
Employer can check the status of the Support Letter application via Xpats Gateway.
6. Who is the decision maker for the Support Letter?
The decision for the Support Letter is subject to the respective Agency.
7. Do I need prior approval from the Department of Labour Peninsular Malaysia
and MYFutureJobs PERKESO for the Support Letter?
Yes, employers are required to obtain prior approval from the Department of
Labour Peninsular Malaysia and MYFutureJobs PERKESO to apply for the Support
Letter from the respective Agency.
8. Is a Support Letter required for Professional Visit Pass-Expert (PVP)
applications?
A support letter is required for the PVP application of the following two (2) sectors:
i. Support Letter from Civil Aviation Authority of Malaysia (CAAM) for Aviation
sector.
ii. Support Letter from the Department of Mineral & Geoscience (JMG) for
Mining sector.
Employers can apply for a Support Letter directly with the respective agencies. The 
Support Letter must be uploaded to ESD Online (esd.imi.gov.my) during the 
submission of the PVP application.
ESD companies
1. How to login to Xpats Gateway?
Employers can access Xpats Gateway via the ESD Online (esd.imi.gov.my) and click
on the Xpats Gateway icon. To log in to Xpats Gateway, click on ‘Company Login’
and use the same login ID and password that are registered on ESD Online.
2. Can an Employer apply for the Support Letter via Xpats Gateway without an
ESD account?
The Employer is required to register for an account on ESD Online to access Xpats
Gateway.
3. Can I request for a Support Letter physically from the respective Agencies?
Effective 15 June 2023, all requests for Support Letters from the respective
Agencies must be made via Xpats Gateway.
4. Will the expatriate application be automatically approved once the Employer
receives the Support Letter?
Applications must be submitted and processed via ESD Online, and all application
approvals are subject to the decision of the Immigration Department of Malaysia.
5. What is company tiering? What is the key indicator that determines a
company's tiering?
It is a formulated tiering system in ESD Online that has been in practice internally
by the Expatriate Services Division (ESD) since 2017. The tiering system will auto-
populate the tiering of companies from Tier 1 (highest) to Tier 5 (lowest).
ESD Online is an integrated system with the Companies Commission of Malaysia 
(SSM), Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia (LHDN), Immigration Department of 
Malaysia system and is accessed by the Royal Malaysia Police (PDRM).
Based on the information extracted from SSM, companies are ranked and 
calculated by the system according to the 5 key indicators:
i. Relevance to the Twelfth Malaysia Plan (RMK-12)
ii. Company Lifecycle Stage
iii. Revenue
iv. Issued Capital
v. Track Record
9. If there is any issue, who should I contact for assistance/ support/ inquiries?
For enquiries related to applications, please contact the respective Agencies. The
contact information is available on Xpats Gateway (Contact Us). For technical and
other matters, please email to helpdesk@myxpats.com.my or call +603-7839 7171.
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 23
STAGE 2
PVP application other 
than the above does not 
require a Support Letter.
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 22


# Page 14
12. I have received a Support Letter via Xpats Gateway. What is the next step?
Log in to ESD Online (esd.imi.gov.my) and click on the "List of Supporting Letter
Application" tab. Complete your Employment Pass application for final approval by
the Immigration Department of Malaysia.
13. What is the validity of the Support Letter?
The validity of a Support Letter is six (6) months upon issuance date.
14. Can I use the same Support Letter for the pass renewal?
The Support Letter is only for one-time use per application in ESD Online.
15. Do I need to apply quota or projection before a Support Letter application?
There is no requirement to apply for quota or projection for a Support Letter.
16. f the Support Letter application is “Not Supported”, is there a need to fulfil
any cooling period before an employer can reapply?
There is no cooling period for reapplying a new Support Letter.
17. Is there any limitation to reapply the Support Letter if the application has not
been supported?
There is no limit to the application for a Support Letter. Employers can proceed to
reapply for a Support Letter.
18. If the Support Letter application is “Not Supported”, can I proceed with an
appeal?
The company can proceed to reapply for a new Support Letter.
19. How do I cancel the Support Letter application in Xpats Gateway?
To cancel the Support Letter application, please email helpdesk@myxpats.com.my.
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 25EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 24
STAGE 2
6. What type of company falls under Fast Track and Normal
Track?
i. Fast Track: Companies in Tier 1, Tier 2 and Critical Sectors
ii. Normal Track: Companies between Tier 3 to Tier 5
7. What is the Support Letter processing charter time?
i. Fast Track: within 3 working days
ii. Normal Track: within 10 working 
days
The following Agencies are excluded from the client charter:
i. Malaysia Nursing Board, Ministry of Health (MOH)
ii. Allied Health Science Division, Ministry of Health (MOH)
8. What is a critical sector?
Companies that are identified by the respective agency as a critical sector are
based on the company's projects, investment value, niche skills and technologies,
and newly critical industries in the current market.
9. How can I view my company tiering?
The company tiering will be listed in the company profile in ESD Online, effective
15 June 2023.
10. The Primary Sector or Agency which was selected is incorrect. Who should
I contact if I want to change the information?
The employer can contact MYXpats Helpdesk at helpdesk@myxpats.com.my or
+603-7839 7171.
11. If I am unsure of my Primary Sector or Agency, who should I contact to obtain
the information?
The employer can contact MYXpats Helpdesk at helpdesk@myxpats.com.my or
+603-7839 7171.
+603-7839 7171
helpdesk@myxpats.com.my


# Page 15
MDEC companies
1. How to login to Xpats Gateway?
Employers can access Xpats Gateway via the ESD Online (esd.imi.gov.my) and click on
the Xpats Gateway icon. To log in to Xpats Gateway, click on ‘eXpats’ under Company
Login and use the same login credentials as the MDEC Expats System. New Employers
will need to register an Expats account in the MDEC Expats System to access Xpats
Gateway.
2. Must all applications under MDEC’s purview be submitted through the Xpats
Gateway?
Effective 24 April 2024, all new and renewal applications for Employment Pass (EP)
must be submitted through the Xpats Gateway at https://xpatsgateway.com.my/.
3. Can I edit an application that has been entered into the Xpats Gateway and
already forwarded to the MDEC Expats System?
Once an application has been submitted to the MDEC Expats System, the employer
cannot edit it in the Xpats Gateway. To update any details of an application
submitted to the MDEC Expats System, please contact MDEC directly.
4. How long does the company registration process take?
The registration status will be available within 3-5 working days, provided all required
information is complete and no further details are requested by IRDA officers.
5. How do I apply for a Support Letter?
You will need to apply the Support Letter through Xpats Gateway from the Supporting
Agency listed in the system. If it is not available, please contact
helpdesk@myxpats.com.my to request for the Agency to be updated in Xpats
Gateway. To login to Xpats Gateway, click on 'IRDA' under Company Login and use the
same login credentials as XPATNOVA system.
6. What happen after the Support Letter is approved?
You will be notified through email and the application will be automatically routed to
XPATNOVA system together with the Support Letter. You may proceed to apply EP by
login to 
XPATNOVA system and submit the application here.
7. How long does it take for the EP application in XPATNOVA to be approved?
The application status will be available within 3-5 working days if all required
information is complete and no further details are requested by IRDA officers.
8. How about other passes? Can I apply in XPATS GATEWAY?
For other pass application, transactions and services (Professional Visit Pass-Expert
(PVP) and Dependant Pass (DP), please access the relevant features at
https://app.xpatnova.com.my
9. Where can I get more information?
For more information, please visit the IRDA website or contact IRDA via phone at
+607 233 3019 or email to expat@irda.com.my.
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 27EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 26
STAGE 2
The contact 
information is 
available on 
Xpats Gateway 
(Contact Us).
IRDA (Iskandar Malaysia) Companies
1. My company is already registered in ESD Online. Do I still need to register in
IRDA XPATNOVA system?
Yes, you must register in XPATNOVA system with minimum information and activate
your account to apply for an Employment Pass (EP). Please ensure your company’s
address falls within the Iskandar Malaysia Region postcodes, which you can verify
here.
2. How do I register for XPATNOVA?
Visit the XPATNOVA system and create an account. Complete all required company
information and submit the form. IRDA will process the company registration and
notify you through the system.
3. Do I need to wait for my company registration to be approved before submitting
an EP application?
Yes, only approved companies can apply for passes related to expatriates through
the XPATNOVA system.


# Page 16
FOR EXPATRIATE(S) / KNOWLEDGE / SKILLED WORKER(S)
The minimum requirements to apply for an expatriate post are as follows:
• Degree and above, with at least 3 years of experience in the relevant ﬁeld;
• Diploma, with at least 5 years of experience in the relevant ﬁeld;
• Technical Certiﬁcate or equivalent, with at least 7 years of experience in the
relevant ﬁeld.
FOR SHAREHOLDER(S)
• Shareholder(s) must have a minimum 30% equity in the company; AND
• Must be a SSM-registered Director of the company AND/OR holds a key- 
position in the company
Note: (1) Any changes in the applicant’s allotment of shares will aﬀect the
eligibility requirements. Please inform the Inspectorate Unit (JKI) of the
Expatriate Services Division (ESD) oﬃcially in writing for any changes in the
shareholder share allotment, together with the copy of relevant documents.
(2) This is the minimum criteria requirement to apply for Employment Pass.
However, the approval of the application is subject to the discretion of the
Expatriate Committee.
STEP 1: Log in to ESD Online account
• Click on “Application Tab”
STEP 2: Click on “EP-III Exemption” under “Setting” from the sidebar (bottom-most 
menu)
STEP 3: Click on “Apply for EP-III Exemption”
• Select “EP-III Year” that you want to apply for
• Fill in the “Justiﬁcation For Exemption Request”
• Upload a Justiﬁcation Letter* to Ministry of Home Aﬀairs (MOHA)
• Upload “Supporting Documents” to support your application (If any)
STEP 5: Click on “Submit Application”
STEP 6: Notiﬁcation (Status)
• Status notiﬁcation will be sent via the ESD Online
• For Approved EP-III exemption, company may proceed to submit application(s)
for EP-III
OR 
• For Rejected EP-III exemption, company does not meet the requirement for 
EP-III exemption application
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 29EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 28
APPLICATION FOR EXEMPTION FROM MINIMUM SALARY 
REQUIREMENT OF RM5,000 FOR EMPLOYMENT PASS 
CATEGORY III
Companies that intend to apply for Employment Pass Category III are required to 
apply through the ESD Online.
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR EMPLOYMENT PASS APPLICATIONS
STEP 4: Fill in the “Request for Exemption from Basic Salary Year (Current Year)”
EP-III Exemption via ESD Online
STAGE 2
Employment Pass (Category I, II and III) applications from companies in other 
sectors (neither in the purview of any Agencies) will be assessed by the Expatriate 
Committee. However, companies who intend to apply for Employment Pass 
Category III must ﬁrst receive approval from the Ministry of Home Aﬀairs (MOHA) 
to be exempted from the minimum salary requirement of RM5,000 before they 
can submit applications for this category. Please refer to the below for further 
details on obtaining the exemption from the minimum salary requirement of 
RM5,000 for Employment Pass Category III applications from MOHA.
OTHER SECTOR
*Note: Please refer to ESD Online Guidebook Annex A for the Letter Format to
Ministry of Home Aﬀairs (MOHA)


# Page 17
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 31EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 30
STAGE 3: (Step By Step)
Expatriate Application Via ESD Online
01STEP 1
Create Application
• Fill in the required information 
of expatriates and dependants 
(if applicable).
• Fill in the position by selecting 
through the list at “Position 
Setup.”
• Upload all documents as 
required.
02STEP 2
Submit Application
• Proceed with online
payment of application fee
and submit the completed
application.
• Notiﬁcation email will be sent
to you upon successful
submission.
03STEP 3
Clearance
• Veriﬁcation and validation
of the submitted information
and documents.
04STEP 4
Notiﬁcation
• Status notiﬁcation will be sent
via ESD Online and email -
approved or rejected.
Approved expatriates may now
proceed to STAGE 4 for pass
endorsement.


# Page 18
Employment Pass
(Category I)
Basic monthly salary of
minimum RM10,000
per month
Employment Contract up
to (5) years
Dependants allowed
Renewable
Conditions:
•Renewal of the pass can be considered depending on the requirements.
• All applications must obtain an Approval Letter before entering Malaysia for the
purpose of employment.
• Applicant are required to collect Single Entry Visa at respective Embassy or can be
apply through eVISA website (If applicable)
• All applications must endorse the Employment Pass within the stipulated time:
• Inside Malaysia: (30) days after the approval
• Outside Malaysia: (30) days after arrival to Malaysia
Employment Pass
(Category II)
Basic monthly salary
between RM5,000 to
RM9,999 per month
Employment Contract up
to (2) years
Dependants allowed
Renewable
Employment Pass
(Category III)
Basic monthly salary
between RM3,000 to
RM4,999 per month
Employment Contract must
not exceed (12) months
Dependants NOT allowed
Maximum (2) times of
renewal
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 33EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 32
STAGE 3
EXPATRIATE APPLICATIONS VIA ESD ONLINE 
Immigration services available through MYXpats Centre:
1. Employment Pass (Category I) - expatriate
2. Employment Pass (Category II) - expatriate
3. Employment Pass (Category III) - knowledge / skilled worker
4. Professional Visit Pass-Expert
5. Dependant Pass
6. Social Visit Pass (Long Term)
7. Social Visit Pass - Internship (SVP-I)
All application can be submitted
online at esd.imi.gov.my
TYPES OF EMPLOYMENT PASS
Charter process: 5 working days


# Page 19
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 35EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 34
STAGE 3
Documents required:
Document
Passport Photo 
Copy of Passport
Requirement
1.  Photo must have light blue background with photo size of
3.5cm x 5.0cm
2.  Size of photo must be in 99 x 142 pixels
3.  Taken in full-face view facing the camera with neutral facial
expression, both eyes open and mouth closed
4.  No head covering allowed which obscures hair or hairline
unless worn for religious purpose
5.  Edited photo is NOT ACCEPTABLE
1.  Passport Pages
• Full booklet with cover and all pages with minimum six
(6) empty pages available.
• Booklet cover must be scanned in clear and coloured
copy including back cover.
2.  Compulsory
• Copy submitted MUST be in COLOUR.
• Scan and upload clear and readable copy in a single pdf
ﬁle, MAXIMUM OF THREE (3) ATTACHMENTS ONLY.
3.  The passport validity MUST BE MORE THAN TWELVE (12)
MONTHS.
4.  Please ensure details in the passport is accurately keyed
into the ESD Online:
i. Name
• Name format should follow as printed in the passport
Machine-Readable Zone (MRZ). For passport without MRZ,
name format should follow “SURNAME” followed by
“GIVEN NAME”.
• Name length (maximum 44 characters including space and
no special characters allowed, if more please follow the
name according to MRZ in the passport).
• Special characters are not available in the ESD Online. If
the MRZ have special character or symbol, please replace
with blank space.
ii. Nationality
• Refer the country code on the MRZ section in the second
line to identify the nationality.
a) Gender
b) Date of Birth
No.
1.
2. Copy of Highest
Educational
Certiﬁcates
c) Passport Number
d)  Passport Issue Date
e)  Passport Expiry Date
• Passport expiry date must be valid for more than
12 months during submission of the application.
f) Place of Passport Issuance
5. Diplomatic Oﬃcial / Refugee Temporary Emergency
passport is not acceptable.
1. Highest Education al certiﬁcate / Translated document (if
applicable) / Professional Certiﬁcate (if applicable) must be
submitted in scanned colour copy
2. For highest educational certiﬁcate, please ensure details
in of the education background is accurately keyed into the
ESD Online especially for the particulars:
•
Highest Qualiﬁcation
• University / College / School
• Major Field Study
• Year of Graduation
• Country of Graduate
3. For professional certiﬁcate (if applicable), please ensure
details in of the professional background is accurately
keyed into the ESD Online especially for the particulars:
• Professional Body / Organization
• Certiﬁcation
• Year obtained certiﬁcation
4. For certiﬁcate(s) that are in English, the following is
required:
• Must be attested Certiﬁed True Copy  (CTC) by the
respective Embassy High Commission Consulate General
in the respective country; OR in Malaysia; OR Human
Resource (CTC) of the company
• If the company HR is attesting the certiﬁcates, then the
attested documents MUST have the oﬃcial company
stamp and can only be signed by the HR Manager and
above with the name, signature and position clearly
stated
3.


# Page 20
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 37EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 36
STAGE 3
• The content includes verify applicant qualiﬁcation,
experiences and capabilities for the position oﬀered
5. Employer Signature:
• The digital signature is not acceptable
• For Employment Pass, the testimonial letter must be
signed by the representative from the top management.
(Example: Director, General Manager, HR Director,
HR Manager)
• For Professional Visit Pass -Expert
, the testimonial letter
must be signed by any representative of the overseas
company
6. Testimonial Letter cannot be signed oﬀ by the applicant
although he / she is the owner / director of the company.
Thus, testimonial should be signed by another authorized
person from the company (example: Diﬀerent director in
the company / HR Manager)
1. Detailed resume in coloured copy includes total
professional working experience.
2. Employment History:
i. Detailed and updated information, current and
previous employer on the employment history with
brief job description:
•
Year to year (2019- 2021) / month & year to month &
year (Jan 2019 - May 2021)
• Full name and location (country) of current and
previous companies
• Position held
ii. Total working experience calculation:
• Part time work, voluntary work and internship is not
professional working experience therefore shall not
be considered into the calculation for total working
experience
• If the applicant is unemployed for certain duration in
employment history, the information must be stated
• If the applicant was never employed, there is no need
to provide the employment history
Latest
comprehensive
Resume
Testimonial (For 
Applicant That 
Unable to Provide 
Educational 
Certiﬁcate)
5. For certiﬁcate(s) that are NOT in English, the following is 
required:
• If the applicant is not in Malaysia, the academic  
certiﬁcate(s) MUST be translated to English and Certiﬁed 
True Copy by the Malaysian Embassy / High 
Commission / Consulate in their respective country OR
• If the applicant is in Malaysia, the academic certiﬁcate(s)  
MUST be translated to English by Institut Terjemahan 
Buku Malaysia (ITBM) / any translation centre 
registered with the Malaysian Translators Association 
(Persatuan Penterjemah Malaysia - PPM) / Dewan 
Bahasa dan Pustaka (DBP) and Certiﬁed True Copy by 
the respective Embassy / High Commission / Consulate 
in Malaysia
• A copy of the original certiﬁcate(s) must be submitted  
together with the translated copy, as per the 
requirements above
6. For certiﬁcates certiﬁed by company Human Resource
(HR), the Expatriate Committee reserves the right to 
request for certiﬁed true copy by the relevant authority in 
the respective country; OR respective Embassy / High 
Commission / Consulate General in Malaysia
1. Testimonial issued by hiring company (for Employment
Pass) / overseas company (for Professional Visit Pass-
Expert) include company letterhead and director’s
signature in coloured scanned copy
2. The content includes verify applicant qualiﬁcation,
experiences and capabilities for the position oﬀered
3. Company Letterhead:
• For Employment Pass, hiring company will provide the
testimonial letter with oﬃcial company letterhead
• Testimonial letter should be issued in scanned colour
copy
4. Description:
• The description will include applicant name and
passport number of the applicant
4.
5.


# Page 21
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 39EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 38
STAGE 3
ii. For all EP I and II Categories, the duration of
employment must not exceed 60 months
5. Designation / position
• The designation / position in the system must be exactly
as per employment contract
• Dual function position is NOT ALLOWED
• The position in the employment contract, ESD Online,
job description and Support Letter/ Approval Letter must
be the same
6. Basic salary (excluding gross salary / allowances /
incentives / bonuses) must be paid by Malaysian company
and stated in Ringgit Malaysia currency
7. The details of the applicant must be same as in the
passport and ESD Online
8. Employment contract and acceptance letter must be
signed by both parties (employer and employee) and
dated accordingly
• On behalf signature (employer) and digital / pasted
signature is strictly unaccepted.
• Employment contract cannot be signed oﬀ by the same
applicant as the employer and the employee of the
company even though he / she is the owner / director of
the company. Thus, employment contract should be
signed by another authorized person from the company
(example: Diﬀerent director in the company / HR
Manager)
Supporting
document from
Approving Agency
/ Regulatory Body
(if applicable)
Release letter
from previous
employer in
Malaysia (for
change of
employer only
Copy of
Employment
Contract (duly
stamped by
Malaysia Inland
Revenue Board)
• If the applicant had further the study during the
working period, please ensure they mention the
duration in the employment history
3. For Professional Visit Pass-Expert application, current
employer should be same with the company that issued
the Acceptance Letter and the recipient in the Oﬀer Letter
4. Educational Background:
• Please ensure the details in the education background is
stated including information of the education
certiﬁcation attached in the system
1. The letter should be issued by the employer mentioned in
the current Employment Pass (EP) (attached in passport)
in colored scanned copy
2. Document submitted MUST be in CLEAR
 and COLOURED
scanned copy and issued on oﬃcial letterhead of previous
company
3. Validity of the letter is within three (3) months from the
issuance date of letter
1. Document submitted MUST be in CLEAR and COLOURED
scanned copy and issued on oﬃcial company letterhead
2. Duly stamped by Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia (IRB)
3. The validity of the Employment Contract MUST be within
THREE (3) months from IRB stamping
4. The following details MUST be mentioned in the
employment contract:
• Issuance date of employment contract
• Name and passport number of the expatriate
• Duration of employment
i. For EP III Category, the duration of employment must
not be more than 12 months
6.
7.
8.


# Page 22
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 40
STAGE 3
Payslips (for
Employment Pass
renewal and
change of
position)
1. Job description must be printed / transcribed  on
company’s oﬃcial letterhead
2.  Position must be stated on Job Description
3.  Location of the position
4. Reporting Line / Supervisor Designation
5.  List of task / responsibilities for position applied
• The minimal listed of job description of the application
is three (3) diﬀerent tasks and not repetitive
• The description of the job should be explained the
position stated
6.  Position stated in the job description must match with
the position stated in the ESD Online and Employment
Contract
1.  Latest three (3) month’s payslips
2.  Payslip is applicable for following type of applications:
• Renewal application in the same company
• Change of position in the same company
• Change Approval Agency but under same company,
same ROC (example: Applicant under MIDA / MDEC to
ESD)
• Previous submission is manual (Ref No: BPP…) and
change to system (Ref No: ESD…)
3.  Salary voucher is not accepted
4.  Salary details:
• State basic salary and the currency must be in Ringgit
Malaysia only
• Detailed payslip which state allowances / tax
deductions
9.
10.
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 41
1. Organizational Chart
• Restaurant / Bar operation: organization chart for
branch that applicant will be assigned and position
(including other employee’s name and position). If the
company have more than one outlet, thus, need to
provide organization chart
Latest e-BE / e-M 
tax ﬁling (for 
Employment Pass 
renewal or change 
of position or 
change of 
employer)
Tax payment 
receipts (if any)
Latest EA Form
(for Employment
Pass renewal or
change of position
or change of
employer)
Account 
statement from 
Malaysia Inland 
Revenue Board 
(Note: upon 
request)
Other documents 
speciﬁed upon 
request
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
1. Acknowledgement receipt e-BE of that year (also called
as Tax Summary)
2. Full pages of e-BE Form (minimum 3 pages)
3. For expatriates that worked for less than 182 days in
Malaysia, they need to provide e-M form.
4. Individual is required to settle all outstanding amount
before the submission of Employment Pass (EP)
application (new / renewal). Settlement through
monthly  instalment (CP38) IS NOT ACCEPTABLE.
1. The tax payment receipt may come in either format
below:
• Official LHDN receipt
• Bank online transfer receipt (Pay to LHDN)
• Bank slip for manual payment in at the counter (with
computer generated verification on slip)
• Bank slip with received stamp only is NOT ACCEPTED
1. The EA form or EC Form contains information on the
personal details of the employee, his or her earnings for
the year and the amount deducted and remitted under the
Scheduler Tax Deduction (STD) scheme
Detailed Job 
Description 
printed on 
company's 
letterhead


# Page 23
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 42
STAGE 3
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 43
Eligibility criteria:
• Legal spouse of Employment Pass holder; OR
• Children below 18 years old (biological, stepchild, legally adopted) of
Employment Pass holder
• Disabled child regardless of age
Features:
• Allows the holder to stay in West Malaysia
• Employment not allowed and requires conversion to Employment Pass
• For social and welfare purposes, the holder may request for special permission
to undertake activities from the Immigration Department of Malaysia
• Charter process: 14 working days
DEPENDANT PASS (DP)
Document
Passport Photo 
Copy of Passport
Documents required:
Requirement
1. Photo must have light blue background with photo size of
3.5cm x 5.0cm
2. Size of photo must be in 99 x 142 pixels
3. Taken in full-face view facing the camera with neutral
facial expression, both eyes open and mouth closed.
4. No head covering allowed which obscures hair or hairline
unless worn for religious purpose.
5. Edited photo is NOT ACCEPTABLE
1. Passport Pages
• Full booklet with cover and all pages with minimum six
(6) empty pages available.
• Booklet cover must be scanned in clear and coloured
copy including back cover.
2. Compulsory:
• Copy submitted MUST be in COLOUR.
• Scan and upload clear and readable copy in a single pdf
ﬁle, MAXIMUM OF THREE (3) ATTACHMENTS ONLY.
3. The passport validity MUST BE MORE THAN TWELVE (12)
MONTHS.
4. Please ensure details in the passport is accurately keyed
into the ESD Online:
i. Name
• Name format should follow as printed in the passport
Machine-Readable Zone (MRZ). For passport without
MRZ, name format should follow “SURNAME”
followed by “GIVEN NAME”.
• Name length (maximum 44 characters including
space 
and no special characters allowed, if more
please follow the name according to MRZ in the
passport).
• Special characters are not available in the ESD
Online. If the MRZ have special character or symbol,
please replace with blank space.
No.
1.
2.


# Page 24
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 45EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 44
STAGE 3
a) Gender
b) Date of Birth
c) Passport Number
d) Passport Issue Date
e) Passport Expiry Date
• Passport expiry date must be valid for more than
12 months during the submission of the
f) Place of Passport Issuance
passport is not acceptable.
1. Copy of Marriage Certificate (for legal spouse)
translated* into English (if applicable) and must be
attested / Certified True Copy (CTC)* by the Embassy /
High Commission / Consulate General of Malaysia in the
respective country OR respective Embassy / High
Commission / Consulate General in Malaysia.
*
For new application, document with CTC of the current
year is compulsory during submission.
2. Copy of Birth Certificate (for children below 18 years
old) translated* into English (if applicable) and must be
attested / Certified True Copy (CTC) by the Malaysian
Embassy / High Commission / Consulate General of
Malaysia in the respective country OR respective
Embassy / High Commission / Consulate General in
Malaysia.
*
Translation must be done either by the Respective
Embassy / High Commission / Consulate General or
Malaysian Institute of Translation & Books (Institut
Terjemahan Buku Malaysia).
3. Other documents speciﬁed upon request.
Marriage / Birth3.
Eligibility criteria:
studying or working in Malaysia; OR
• Parents and Parents-in-law of Employment Pass holder; OR
• Common law spouse of Employment Pass holder can be considered
Features:
• Allows the holder to stay in West Malaysia
• Employment is not allowed and requires conversion to Employment Pass
• Study is not allowed and requires conversion to Student Pass
spouse
• Charter process: 14 working days
validity or the passport period whichever is earlier.
SOCIAL VISIT PASS (LONG TERM)
4. 1. The letter should be issued by the employer mentioned
in the current Employment Pass (EP) (attached in
passport) in coloured scanned copy.
2. Validity within six (6) months from the date of issuance
of letter.
3. Signatory must be a person who is ENDORSER/
DIRECTOR in the Letter of Undertaking (LoU).


# Page 25
Birth
Certiﬁcates
ii. Nationality
• Refer the country code on the MRZ section in the
second line to identify the nationality.
a) Gender
b) Date of Birth
c) Passport Number
d) Passport Issue Date
e) Passport Expiry Date
• Passport expiry date must be valid for more than
12 months during the submission of the
application.
f) Place of Passport Issuance
5. Diplomatic Oﬃcial / Refugee Temporary Emergency
passport is not acceptable.
1. Copy of Birth Certiﬁcate (for children above 18 years old)
translated* into English (if applicable) and Certiﬁed True
Copy (CTC) by the Embassy / High Commission / Consulate
General of Malaysia in the respective country OR
respective Embassy / High Commission / Consulate
General in Malaysia
2. Copy of Birth Certiﬁcate of Employment Pass holder (for
Parents) or Employment Pass holder’s legal spouse (for
Parents-in-laws) translated* into English (if applicable) and
Certiﬁed True Copy (CTC) by the Malaysian Embassy / High
Commission / Consulate General in the respective country
OR respective Embassy / High Commission / Consulate
General in Malaysia
*Translation must be done either by the Respective
Embassy / High Commission / Consulate General or
Malaysian Institute of Translation & Books (Institut
Terjemahan Buku Malaysia)
3. Other documents speciﬁed upon request
3.
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 47EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 46
STAGE 3
Document
Passport Photo 
Copy of Passport
Documents required:
Requirement
1. Photo must have light blue background with photo size of
3.5cm x 5.0cm
2. Size of photo must be in 99 x 142 pixels
3. Taken in full-face view facing the camera with neutral
facial expression, both eyes open and mouth closed.
4. No head covering allowed which obscures hair or hairline
unless worn for religious purpose.
5. Edited photo is NOT ACCEPTABLE
1. Passport Pages
• Full booklet with cover and all pages with minimum six
(6) empty pages available.
• Booklet cover must be scanned in clear and coloured
copy including back cover.
2. Compulsory:
• Copy submitted MUST be in COLOUR.
• Scan and upload clear and readable copy in a single pdf
ﬁle, MAXIMUM OF THREE (3) ATTACHMENTS ONLY.
3. The passport validity MUST BE MORE THAN TWELVE (12)
MONTHS.
4. Please ensure details in the passport is accurately keyed
into the ESD Online:
i. Name
• Name format should follow as printed in the
passport Machine-Readable Zone (MRZ). For
passport without MRZ, name format should follow
“SURNAME” followed by “GIVEN NAME”.
• Name length (maximum 44 characters including
space and no special characters allowed, if more
please follow the name according to MRZ in the
passport).
• Special characters are not available in the ESD
Online. If the MRZ have special character or symbol,
please replace with blank space.
No.
1.
2.


# Page 26
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 49EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 48
STAGE 3
1. Aﬃdavit / Acknowledgement letter from the Employment
Pass holder’s Embassy / High Commission/ Consulate
General on the relationship status (for Common Law
Spouse)
1. Statutory Declaration from the Commissioner of Oaths and
conﬁrmation letter from the respective Embassy / High
Commission / Consulate General in Malaysia regarding the
applicant’s latest status (single, not studying nor working
in Malaysia and still under the custodian of the EP holder)
is required for each renewal.
1. Completed Personal Bond form duly stamped by Inland
Revenue Board (IRB)
1. The letter should be issued by the employer mentioned
in the current Employment Pass (EP) (attached in
passport) in coloured scanned copy.
2. Validity within six (6) months from the date of issuance
of letter.
3. Signatory must be a person who is an ENDORSER/
DIRECTOR in the Letter of Undertaking (LoU).
Aﬃdavit /
Acknowledgement
letter (Applicable
for Common Law
Spouse)
Statutory Letter
and Conﬁrmation
Letter for Children
between 18 years
old - 25 years old
Personal Bond
Application Letter
4.
5.
6.
7.
- FOR FOREIGN MAID(S)
Eligibility criteria:
• Female, aged 21 - 45 years old; AND
• Health certiﬁed by FOMEMA
• Refer to the table below on the eligibility to hire the numbers of foreign
maid(s):
Features:
• Allows the holder to be employed as a foreign maid for the Employment Pass
holder
VISIT PASS (TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT)
NUMBERS OF MAIDS ALLOWED
One (1) Foreign Maid
Two (2) Foreign Maids
Three (3) Foreign Maids
SALARY DRAWN
RM5,000.00 and above
RM10,000.00 and above
RM15,000.00 and above
Refer to Immigration Department for
further requirement
Four (4) and subsequent Foreign Maids


# Page 27
ii. Nationality
• Refer the country code on the MRZ section in the
second line to identify the nationality.
a) Gender
b) Date of Birth
c) Passport Number
d) Passport Issue Date
e) Passport Expiry Date
• Passport expiry date must be valid for more than 12
months during the submission of the application.
f) Place of Passport Issuance
5. Diplomatic Oﬃcial / Refugee Temporary Emergency
passport is not acceptable.
Maid’s
Employmen
t
Contract (duly
stamped by Inland
Revenue Board)
FOMEMA
Certiﬁcate
Personal Bond
form (duly
stamped by Inland
Revenue Board)
Release letter
from previous
employer (for
change of
employer, if
applicable)
Other documents
speciﬁed upon
request
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 51EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 50
STAGE 3
Documents required:
Requirement
1. Photo must have light blue background with photo size of
3.5cm x 5.0cm
2. Size of photo must be in 99 x 142 pixels
3. Taken in full-face view facing the camera with neutral
facial expression, both eyes open and mouth closed.
4. No head covering allowed which obscures hair or hairline
unless worn for religious purpose.
5. Edited photo is NOT ACCEPTABLE
1. Passport Pages
• Full booklet with cover and all pages with minimum six
(6) empty pages available.
• Booklet cover must be scanned in clear and coloured
copy including back cover.
2. Compulsory:
• Copy submitted MUST be in COLOUR.
• Scan and upload clear and readable copy in a single pdf
ﬁle, MAXIMUM OF THREE (3) ATTACHMENTS ONLY.
3. The passport validity MUST BE MORE THAN TWELVE (12)
MONTHS.
4. Please ensure details in the passport is accurately keyed
into the ESD Online:
i. Name
• Name format should follow as printed in the passport
Machine-Readable Zone (MRZ). For passport without
MRZ, name format should follow “SURNAME”
followed by “GIVEN NAME”.
• Name length (maximum 44 characters including
space 
and no special characters allowed, if more
please follow the name according to MRZ in the
passport).
•
Special characters are not available in the ESD Online.
If the MRZ have special character or symbol, please 
replace with blank space.
No.
1.
2.
Document
Passport Photo 
Copy of Passport


# Page 28
• Hiring company successfully registered with ESD (refer to Stage 1 & 2); AND
• Applicant fulﬁls one of the following categories:
Category I: Expertise Transfer
Category II: Research
Category III: Training at ESD-registered companies 
Category IV: Volunteers
Category V: Exhibitors under regulation of Malaysia Convention & Exhibition
Bureau (MyCEB)
Category VI: Student Internship* under:
i. Foreign Embassies
ii. ESD-registered companies
iii. Hotels
*Must be relevant to the applicant’s education background
• For Hotel Trainee:
• Applicable to hotels rated 4 star and above only.
• Hotels rated 3 star may apply but restricted to Indonesian trainees only.
• Limited to 25 trainees at any given time.
• Maximum duration allowed is for six (6) months only and non-renewable.
• The trainee can only apply once for training in any hotel in Malaysia.
Features:
• Allows the holder to engage in Temporary Employment / contracted activity in
Malaysia under the ESD-registered company.
• Maximum duration of contract allowed is for 12 months and is restricted to
one contract / project at a time.
• The position is non-salaried.
• Payment and endorsement of PVP can be done via online and will be delivered
by Pos Malaysia
• Charter process: 5 working days
Conditions: 
• The maximum duration for an expatriate to hold PVP is 12 months. No
extensions are allowed beyond 12 months.
• Should companies wish to request PVP extensions (within 12 months) with the
same company, the application must be submitted at least One (1) month
before the pass expiry date and the applicant is not be required to exit the
country throughout the application processing period.
• All PVP applications must obtain an Approval Letter before entering Malaysia
for the purpose of employment.
• Applicant require to collect Single Entry Visa at respective Embassy or can be
apply through eVISA website (only applicable for nationalities requiring visa).
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 53
STAGE 3
PROFESSIONAL VISIT PASS-EXPERT (PVP) 
Eligibility criteria:
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 52
• Applicants who have entered the country will have 14 days from entry date to
endorse the PVP.
• In case of change of employer while the pass is still valid, the PVP is required to
cancel and exit Malaysia before applying new PVP with new employer.
The maximum duration for
an expatriate to hold PVP is
12 months. No extensions are
allowed beyond 12 months.


# Page 29
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 54 EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 55
STAGE 3
Documents required:
Requirement
1.  The Application Letter is a letter provided by the Host /
Malaysian company that MUST be signed by the listed
Endorser or Director who signed the Letter of Undertaking
(LoU) submission.
2.  Document MUST be issued on official company
letterhead and submitted in CLEAR and COLOURED
scanned copy.
3.  Validity period for Application Letter is within three (3)
months upon ISSUANCE date.
4.  Addressed to Immigration Department Malaysia,
Putrajaya:
Pengarah
Unit Pas Lawatan Ikhtisas
Bahagian Khidmat Ekspatriat,
Ibu Pejabat Jabatan Imigresen Malaysia
No.15, Tingkat 3 (podium)
Persiaran Perdana, Presint 2
62550 Putrajaya, Wilayah Persekutuan
5.  Please include the following in the Application Letter:
i)  Applicant details:
•  Name
•  Current Passport Number
•  Nationality
• Highest Qualification
• Major
• Total Working Experience
•  Current Designation/Position Name in Foreign Company
•  Current Foreign Company/Educational Institution Name
•  Address and Contact Number of Foreign Company/
Educational Institution
•  Position of Pass Applied (As per in the ESD position
selection)
•  Duration of Pass Applied (Must NOT exceed 12 months)
No.
1.
Document
Application letter
ii) Assignment Details:
• Justification for Application (Please justify the reason
for the applicant’s entry into Malaysia in extensive
detail)
• Commencement Date (The assignment/position will
commence immediately upon the issuance of the
Professional Visit Pass-Expert by the Immigration
Department of Malaysia)
• Assignment Duration (Must NOT exceed 12 months)
• Assignment Details (Must explain specific title of the
assignment that the applicant will carry out)
iii) Detailed Work/Training Schedule of assignment in
Malaysia
• Breakdown of the applicant's task for the assignment
and the duration for each assigned task (month-to-
month). Stating only one (1) total duration for the
whole list of tasks is NOT accepted.
• Describe the expected roles and responsibilities
required to be carried out by the applicant for the
respective months
• Repetitive job assignment is NOT accepted
• Tasks that are not related to the position applied are
NOT accepted
Details of Current Foreign Educational Institution Name, 
Address, and Contact Number is ONLY APPLICABLE to be 
filled in if hiring foreign students who have yet to graduate 
to undergo Practical Training and Attending Course.
6. A clarification statement assuring that the applicant will
remain a student/employee of the overseas company/
Educational Institution throughout the whole tenure of the
assignment.
7. For the salary section, the salary of the applicant must
be paid by the overseas company ONLY. If the company
states Malaysian company or anything similar indicating
that the salary is being paid by a local company, it is NOT
accepted.
• A Malaysian company is only allowed to provide
allowances or other related expenses to the
applicant
• The salary value to be stated in the letter is optional


# Page 30
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 57EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 56
STAGE 3
3.
4. Please ensure details in the passport is accurately keyed
into the ESD Online:
i. Name
• Name format should follow as printed in the passport
Machine-Readable Zone (MRZ). For passport without MRZ,
name format should follow “SURNAME” followed by
“GIVEN NAME”.
• Name length (maximum 44 characters including space
and no special characters allowed, if more please follow
the name according to MRZ in the passport).
• Special characters are not available in the ESD Online. If
the MRZ have special character or symbol, please replace
with blank space.
ii.Nationality
• Refer the country code on the MRZ section in the second
line to identify the nationality
Personal Bond:
1. A Personal Bond, which also called as Personal
Recognizance
2. Purpose of Personal Bond: A written contract in which a
person who has been guaranteed which agrees to comply
with the provision of act and any government regulations
and promises to abstain from breaking the law while the
personal bond is in force
3. Document submitted MUST be in CLEAR and COLOURED
scanned copy and duly stamped by Inland Revenue Board
of Malaysia (IRB)
4. IRB stamp:
•The Personal Bond must be duly stamped by Inland
Revenue Board of Malaysia (IRB) (six (6) months
validity from the date stated on the stamp)
•Purpose is to provide protection to the people who
signed the agreement, as the document is now
admissible for the court in case of a dispute
Personal Bond  
form
OR
Security Bond 
form (duly  
stamped by  
Inland Revenue  
Board)(applicable  
for all nationality)
4.
8. Employer Signatory:
• Must consist of three (3) items:
i. Signature
ii. Name
iii. Designation
• Must be a person who is an ENDORSER / DIRECTOR
in the Letter of Undertaking (LoU)
• Digital or pasted signature is NOT accepted
1. Passport Pages
•Full booklet with cover and all pages with minimum six
(6)empty pages available
•Booklet cover must be scanned in clear and colour copy
including back cover
2. Compulsory:
•Copy submitted MUST be in COLOUR
•Scan and upload clear and readable copy in single pdf
file, MAXIMUM OF THREE (3) ATTACHMENTS ONLY
3. The passport validity MUST BE MORE THAN TWELVE
(12) MONTHS
Copy of passport
1.Photo must have light blue background with photo size of
3.5cm x 5.0cm
2.Size of photo must be in 99 x 142 pixels
3.Taken in full-face view facing the camera with neutral
facial expression, both eyes open and mouth closed
4.No head covering allowed which obscures hair or hairline
unless worn for religious purpose
5.Edited photo is NOT ACCEPTABLE
Recent passport 
photo
2.


# Page 31
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 59EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 58
STAGE 3
5. Bond that is secured by the issuer's (Malaysian company
representative) pledge of a speciﬁc amount because rates
diﬀer to nationality
6. The following details MUST be ﬁlled and veriﬁed in
Personal Bond:
i.Issuance for Professional Visit Pass-Expert.
• The document needs to state for issuance of a
Professional Visit Pass-Expert
• If company state diﬀerent pass, it is not accepted
(example: Employment Pass, Dependant Pass)
ii.Name of the applicant. Passport number to be stated
is optional
iii.Applicant Overseas Address (Applicant home address
or overseas company address)
iv.Personal Bond rate (as per Personal Bond Rate by
Immigration)
v.State the Name and IC Number of Employer (must be
a Malaysian)
• Preferences for Malaysian person stated in Letter
of Undertaking (LoU) of respective company
• If Employer representative is not stated in Letter
of Undertaking (LoU), required to provide the proof
that the person that has signed the Personal Bond is
the employee of the company. (example: EPF slip,
Staﬀ ID)
vi.Malaysia Employer‘s company Address. Employer’s
home address is not accepted
• Malaysian company address in the Personal Bond
attached must be the same with company address
stated in the Application Letter.
• Stated name of the company only, it is still
accepted
vii.Employer’s detail and Signature (must be a Malaysian)
viii.Witness details and Signature (must be a Malaysian)
7. If the company does not have a local employee /
employer, the form may be signed by Commissioner
of Oaths
8. Company letterhead transcribed on the Personal Bond is
NOT accepted
9. Handwritten is allowed as long as it is readable
Security Bond:
1. Document submitted MUST be in CLEAR and COLOURED
scanned copy and duly stamped by Inland Revenue
Board of Malaysia (LHDN).
2. Bond that is secured by the issuer's (Malaysian company
representative) pledge of a speciﬁc amount because
rates diﬀer to nationality.
3. IRB stamp:
• The Security Bond must be duly stamped by Inland
Revenue Board of Malaysia (IRB) (six (6) months
validity from the date stated on the stamp)
• Purpose is to provide protection to the people who
signed the agreement, as the document is now
admissible for the court in case of a dispute
4. The following details MUST be ﬁlled and veriﬁed in
Security Bond:
i. Issuance for Professional Visit Pass-Expert.
• The document needs to state for issuance of a
Professional Visit Pass-Expert
• If company state diﬀerent pass, it is not accepted
(example: Employment Pass, Dependant Pass)
ii. Name of the applicant. Passport number to be stated
is optional
iii. Applicant Overseas Address (Applicant home address
or overseas company address)
iv. Security Bond rate (as per Security Bond Rate by
Immigration)


# Page 32
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 61EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 60
STAGE 3
• Purpose (List and describe the activities that are planned
for the partnership and the roles of each party
• Reporting (Record who will evaluate effectiveness and
adherence to the agreement and when evaluation will
happen)
• Funding (Specify that this MOU is not a commitment of
funds)
• Duration (State the effective start and end date of the
MOU)
4. Signatory for both Malaysian company and Overseas
Institution representative:
• Must consist of these five (5) items:
i. Name of company/institution
ii. Name
iii. Signature
iv. Designation
v. Date
• Digital or pasted signature is NOT accepted
Supporting 
document from 
Approving 
Agency / 
Regulatory 
Body (If 
applicable)
5. Letter of Award 
(LOA) / Contract, 
if applicable
v. State the Name and IC Number of Employer (must be a
Malaysian)
• Preferences for Malaysian person stated in Letter of
Undertaking (LoU) of respective company
• If Employer representative is not stated in LoU, required
to provide the proof that the person that has signed the
Security Bond is the employee of the company. (example:
EPF slip, Staff ID)
vi. Malaysia Employer‘s company Address. Employer’s
home address is not accepted
• Malaysian company address in the Security Bond
attached must be the same with company address stated in
the Application Letter
• Stated name of the company only, it is still accepted
vii. Employer’s detail and Signature (must be a Malaysian)
viii. Witness details and Signature (must be a Malaysian)
• If the company does not have a local employee/
employer, the form may be signed by Commissioner of
Oaths
• Company letterhead transcribed on the Security Bond is
NOT accepted
5. Handwritten is allowed as long as it is readable
6. 1. Document submitted MUST be in CLEAR and COLOURED
scanned and duly stamped by Inland Revenue Board of
Malaysia (LHDN).
2. MOU provided must state the terms and understanding
between the first party (Malaysia/host company) and the
second party (Overseas company/institution)
3. Please ensure the following details are included in the MOU:
• Background of both parties (describe why the partnership
is important)
Memorandum 
of 
Understanding 
(MOU), if 
applicable 
1. For the purpose of installation, maintenance and repair of
machinery or installation of new product:
• Form K1 / ZB4 / Others / BI or Letter of Confirmation from
the Customs Department is required to validate company’s
physical location in Free Trade Zone (FTZ)
2. For external experts in mining activities:
• Supporting letter from Minerals and Geoscience
Department Malaysia for every application of foreign
experts for mining purposes.
3. For aeroplane simulator tester:
• Supporting letter from the Civil Aviation Authority of
Malaysia for each application
4. For hotels receiving students under practical training
application:
• Latest Hotel Star Rating Certificate
5. Other documents specified upon request
7.
1. Please ensure the project duration is still valid and within
the period of pass request.


# Page 33
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 63EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 62
STAGE 3
Eligibility criteria:
• Hiring company successfully registered with ESD (refer to Stage 1 & 2); AND
• ESD-registered company that intends to undertake short-term placements of
international student within their company must apply for permission for this
facility; AND
• Student must be currently pursuing a degree program or equivalent from
recognised universities / institutions abroad (outside of Malaysia)
Features:
• This facility covers international student’s mobility programs for a period
determined by the student’s eligibility for social visit pass based on nationality;
or a maximum period of up to three (3) months. Programs that require more
than the maximum period allowed must apply for a Professional Visit Pass-
Expert.
• Types of programs / activities which are required to apply for this facility
include student exchange, industrial / practical training, internship,
mentorship, and other similar programmes allowed.
Conditions:
• Host Company must be successfully registered in ESD Online.
• Application must be submitted by the Host Company through ESD Online.
• Program participant (Student) must be overseas when the application is  
submitted.
• Passport must have minimum twelve (12) months validity for international  
travel.
• Program participant can only undertake the program approved by the Host  
Company.
• Program participants are not allowed to bring depend ants.
• The program participant is required to leave the country upon completion of  
the program or expiry of the pass. Extension of the program is not allowed.
• Program participant from country requiring visa is required to obtain a visa  
before travel. Program participant will be issued Single Entry Visa (for countries 
requiring visa).
• The duration of the program is as per country eligibility.
• The social visit pass endorsement is at the discretion of
the Immigration oﬃcers.
SOCIAL VISIT PASS - INTERNSHIP (SVP-I)
 Documents required:
Requirement
1. Passport Pages
• Full booklet with cover and all pages with minimum six
(6) empty pages available.
• Booklet cover must be scanned in clear and coloured
copy including back cover.
2. Compulsory:
• Copy submitted MUST be in COLOUR.
• Scan and upload clear and readable copy in a single pdf
ﬁle, MAXIMUM OF THREE (3) ATTACHMENTS ONLY.
3. The passport validity MUST BE MORE THAN TWELVE (12)
MONTHS.
4. Please ensure details in the passport is accurately keyed
into the ESD Online:
i. Name
• Name format should follow as printed in the passport
Machine-Readable Zone (MRZ). For passport without
MRZ, name format should follow “SURNAME”
followed by “GIVEN NAME”.
• Name length (maximum 44 characters including space
and no special characters allowed, if more please
follow the name according to MRZ in the passport).
• Special characters are not available in the ESD Online.
If the MRZ have special character or symbol, please
replace with blank space.
ii. Nationality
• Refer the country code on the MRZ section in the
second line to identify the nationality.
a) Gender
b) Date of Birth
c) Passport Number
d) Passport Issue Date
e) Passport Expiry Date
• Passport expiry date must be valid for more
 than 12
months during the submission of the application.
f) Place of Passport Issuance
5. Diplomatic Oﬃcial / Refugee Temporary Emergency
passport is not acceptable.
No.
1.
Document
Copy of Passport


# Page 34
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 65EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 64
STAGE 3
1. Letter from the educational institution with the following
details:
• Name of the applicant as per passport;
• Passport number.
• Course / Major enrolled.
• Course / Major start and end date.
• Conﬁrmation from the institution on the student’s
current standing (year of study, enrolment status).
• Name and position of the signatories of the letter.
1. Letter from host company with the following details:
• Name of the applicant as per passport.
• Passport number.
• Name of the program and program.
• Program start and end date.
• Signature, name, and position of the host company
representative;
• Acceptance signature, and date of the applicant.
Conﬁrmation
letter
Internship oﬀer
letter
Detailed schedule
of the internship
 program
2.
3.
4.
1. Employment Pass Category III holders whose pass have been renewed for two (2)
times or 3 years in a row MUST leave the country and serve 3 months cooling oﬀ
period to be able to apply for Employment Pass Category III again. Exemption is
only given for cases of Employment Pass Category III converting to Employment
Pass Category I / II.
2. Employment Pass Category III holders who are changing employers MUST leave
the country and serve 3 months cooling oﬀ period to be able to apply for
Employment Pass Category III with diﬀerent employer.
3. Visit Pass (Temporary Employment) holders who wanted to convert to
Employment Pass (all categories) MUST leave the country and serve 3 months
cooling oﬀ period to be able to apply for Employment Pass (all categories).
COOLING-OFF PERIOD REQUIREMENT


# Page 35
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 67
STAGE 4: (Step By Step)
ONLINE ENDORSEMENT VIA ESD ONLINE
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 66
05
04
02STEP 2 STEP 4
ePASS
An ePASS will be 
generated and can 
be downloaded 
through ESD Online 
ENDORSEMENT
Applicants who have 
entered the country 
will have 30 days 
from entry date to 
endorse the ePASS 
(new and renewal 
applications); OR 
Applicants who have 
entered Malaysia via 
KLIA 1 or KLIA 2 will 
be able to endorse 
the ePASS at ESC, 
KLIA Terminal 1 or 
ESC, KLIA Terminal 2 
(new ONLY)
PRE-ENDORSEMENT
Documents required 
for pre-endorsement:
I. Copy of passport
ID page
II. Visa Sticker/
eVisa
III. Copy of Flight
Ticket
IV. Visa Approval
Letter/ eVAL (if
applicable)
APPROVAL
Print the approval 
letter available online 
for download. 
Applicable fees will 
also be advised 
online. https://
imigresen-online. 
imi.gov.my/myimms/
main?visapas
PAYMENT 
Payment for the 
Immigration
fees can be made 
at the Immigration
e-payment website
0301
STEP 1 STEP 3
DELIVERY 
i-KAD (for applicable
passes) will be
delivered within
1 working day 
(Klang Valley), 
3 working days
(outside of Klang 
Valley) & 5 working 
days (Labuan) upon 
collection by Pos 
Malaysia
STEP06 6
STEP 5


# Page 36
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 69EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 68
Option 2: Endorsement of ePASS via MYXpats Centre Surian Tower
i. Company obtained Approval Letter for EP/DP/LTSVP/PVP.
ii. Company informs applicant to obtain Visa with Reference (VDR) if applicable.
iii. Applicant may enter Malaysia via any entry point (air or land).
iv. Company initiates Endorsement submission via ESD Online and upload the
required documents as per checklist.
v. Submit Endorsement application.
vi. MYXpats and JIM will process the Endorsement application.
vii. Company will perform the payment for the Endorsement.
viii. ePASS will be endorsed via ESD Online and a button to generate the ePASS
will appear at the company’s ESD Online account.
ix. i-KAD will be delivered by POS Malaysia to the selected company address
during the endorsement initiation (if applicable).
x. Applicant will obtain the ePASS and i-KAD. Please note that i-KAD will only be
issued to EP holder.
5. How many working days will it take for the ePASS to process after payment is
made?
Upon payment, it will take one (1) working day for the ePASS to be processed and
reﬂected in the ESD Online.
6. Can I shorten the ePASS?
Yes, the ePASS can be shortened for the following reasons:
i. Change of employer
ii. Change of position title
iii. Change of approval agency
iv. Change of pass type
v. End of Service
vi. Death of ePASS holder
7. Does ePASS follow the validity of an approved application?
The validity of the ePASS will follow the approval and validity of the applicant’s
passport.
8. Is the ePASS a valid document to be shown when entering or exiting Malaysia?
The applicant can enter and exit Malaysia using the ePASS with a valid passport
registered on the ePASS.
9. Is the ePASS valid to show upon entry at the airport?
Yes, it is valid to show upon entry at the airport.
1. What is ePASS?
ePASS, introduced in December 2022, is an electronic pass issued for the approved
applications (Employment Pass, Dependant Pass, Long Term Social Visit Pass,
Professional Visit Pass)
2. What is the purpose of the ePASS?
The purpose of the ePASS is to ease the ENDORSEMENT process AND reduce the
number of pages used in the passport.
3. What types of passes will be included under ePASS?
i. Employment Pass (EP) (New and Renewal Applications)
ii. Dependant Pass (DP)
iii. Long Term Social Visit Pass (LTSVP)
iv. Professional Visit Pass (PVP)
4. How is the process to have my ePASS completely endorsed?
There are two options for the ePASS endorsement
Option 1: Endorsement of ePASS via Expatriate Satellite Centre (ESC) KLIA 
Terminal 1 or Terminal 2
i. Company obtained Approval Letter for EP/DP/LTSVP/PVP.
ii. Company informs applicant to obtain Visa with Reference (VDR) if applicable.
iii. Purchase flight ticket for the purpose of entry into Malaysia.
iv. Company initiates Endorsement submission via ESD Online and upload the
required documents as per checklist.
v. Submit Endorsement application.
vi. MYXpats and JIM will process the Endorsement application.
vii. Company will perform the payment for the Endorsement.
viii. Applicant may enter Malaysia and proceed to ESC KLIA Terminal 1 or
Terminal 2 for the ePASS endorsement. No appointment needed.
ix. Applicant will obtain the ePASS and i-KAD (if applicable).
x. If applicant is unable to obtain ePASS endorsement at ESC KLIA Terminal 1 or
Terminal 2 due to unforeseen circumstances, the location of the ePASS
endorsement has to be changed to MYXpats Centre.
xi. If applicant is unable to be present at ESC KLIA Terminal 1 or Terminal 2 as per
flight date submitted, the company should contact MYXpats through the
Helpdesk to request the application to be returned. After receiving the
returned application, the company can resubmit the endorsement request by
changing the endorsement location to MYXpats Centre.
STAGE 4
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS  About ePASS 
GENERAL


# Page 37
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 71EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 70
16. Is it necessary to attach the ePASS to the passport? If so, what is the proper
procedure for doing so?
The ePASS should be kept together with the passport. There is no requirement to
affix it inside the passport; however, the applicant must ensure that the ePASS is
readily available with the passport should any verification is required by the relevant
authorities.
ePASS holder is also recommended to keep a digital copy of their ePASS in their 
mobile devices.
17. How can the validity of the ePASS be confirmed?
The ePASS will be issued with a QR code. Authorities and company representatives
may scan the QR code to verify the ePASS authenticity.
18. Can the ePASS be printed in case the applicants are unable to access it from
their devices?
Yes, the ePASS may still be printed for verification purposes if the devices cannot be
accessed.
19. What is the function of the ePASS QR Code?
The QR Code will be displaying the information of the ePASS holder, to verify that
the information indicated in the ePASS is valid.
20. Is the ePASS accepted as a valid document for opening a bank account in
Malaysia?
Yes, the ePASS can be used to open a bank account. If the bank requires further
verification,
The company may requests the bank to verify the ePASS validation through the 
Immigration Official Website via the link: https://imigresen-online.imi.gov.my/
eservices/epass?semakan.
OR
Please request the ePASS Validation Letter sample from the MYXpats Centre, steps 
as below:
i. Cover Letter from bank stating the intent to confirm on the ePASS authenticity
from the immigration (You may download the template from ESD Online Downloads
section or request it from MYXpats Helpdesk)
ii. Email to MYXpats helpdesk (helpdesk@myxpats.com.my) 
 and attach the Cover
Letter from the Bank.
STAGE 4
10. Is it possible for an applicant holding an ePASS to travel within Malaysia
without a passport?
No, the ePASS must always be presented together with the applicant’s passport.
ENDORSEMENT
11. Where can I find the ePASS?
The ePASS can be downloaded from the ePASS section in the ESD Online.
12. What should the company do if they do not receive the email to download
the ePASS?
Company may log in to the ESD Online System to download the ePASS. From the
tab ENDORSEMENT -> PASS ENDORSEMENT -> ePASS on the left sidebar of the
ESD Online system.
13. If I cannot print the ePASS from the ESD Online or the button for the ePASS
printout does not show the pass, how do I report the problem and what
supporting documents should I share?
Company may contact MYXpats helpdesk to report the issue, and there are no
supporting documents needed. Our team will get back to you after the issue has
been resolved.
Please be informed that only registered LOU personnel may contact us regarding
the issue.
14. What steps should be taken if there is an error found in the ePASS, and how
can it be corrected?
The company may email MYXpats helpdesk or walk-in to MYXpats Centre
together 
with the required documents for amendment. The updated ePASS will
be
 available within 3-5 working days.
15. If the applicant was issued a new passport, is it necessary to make a
Transfer of Endorsement (TOE) / Take-Up Balance (TUB) in the Sub-Product
module?
Yes, it is compulsory for company to apply the TOE/TUB via Sub-Product module
in the ESD Online. After the TOE/TUB process has been completed, an updated
ePASS will be issued to the applicant.
Please note that if the applicant has received a new passport and has not 
completed the TOE/TUB, immigration authorities have the right to deny them 
permission to leave the country.


# Page 38
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 73EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 72
STAGE 4
21. How do I get the ePASS validation which may be requested from the Embassy
or Foreign Agency/ Authorities?
The company may requests the Embassy or Foreign Agency/ Authorities to check
the ePASS validation through the Immigration Official Website via the link: https://
imigresen-online.imi.gov.my/eservices/epass?semakan.
OR
The company may requests the Embassy or Foreign Agency/ Authorities to contact 
ESD Putrajaya via esdhelpdesk@imi.gov.my for direct validation. The charter time 
will be one (1) working day for the Immigration Department's validation process.
22. For Public Universities and Government Agencies, will they also receive ePASS
for their expatriates?
No. Expatriates for Public Universities and Government Agencies will continue to
follow the current endorsement process which is manually at Immigration
Department of Malaysia HQ or State offices, until further notice.
1. What is MYXpats Centre?
Malaysia Expatriate Talent Service Centre (MYXpats Centre) provides employers and
expatriates with Employment Pass and related pass services. It processes and issues
the Employment Pass and related passes for eligible expatriates wanting to work in
Malaysia.
It is a joint initiative between Talent Corporation Malaysia Berhad (TalentCorp) and 
the Immigration Department of Malaysia, and it is overseen by the Ministry of Home 
Aﬀairs.
2. What are the services oﬀered at the MYXpats Centre?
Companies already registered with the Expatriate Service Division (ESD) Online can
make use of the MYXpats Centre to:
• Apply for relevant passes for their expatriate employees
• Seek assistance during the document submission process
• Submission and delivery for endorsement via delivery by Pos Malaysia or collection
at ESC, KLIA Terminal 1 or ESC, KLIA Terminal 2 of Immigration passes
3. How do I apply for an Employment Pass?
Expatriates are not allowed to apply for their own immigration passes. The
application must be done by the company that intends to hire the expatriate. Firstly,
company needs to be registered with the ESD before they can apply for an
expatriate Employment Pass or other expatriate related Immigration pass.
Applications for these passes can be made online at esd.imi.gov.my.
FREQUENTLY ASKED
QUESTIONS
Letter of Award
(LOA) / Contract,
if applicable
Supporting
document from
Approving Agency
/ Regulatory Body
(If applicable)
4. What are the documents that I need to complete, and where can I get them?
The checklist is made available in the ESD Online Guidebook.
5. How long will it take to process and approve the Employment Pass application?
Once all required documents have been submitted, all applications will be processed
within ﬁve (5) working days.
About MYXpats Centre
ePASS


# Page 39
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 75
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 74
1. For ESD COMPANY REGISTRATION related matters, please contact Inspectorate
Unit at the following contact information for more assistance:
Inspectorate Unit
Expatriate Services Division (ESD)
Immigration Department of Malaysia Level 3 (Podium) No 15, Persiaran Perdana,
Precint 2 62550 Putrajaya
Tel : 03-8880 1375 / 1486
Email : inspektorat.esd@imi.gov.my
2. For PROFESSIONAL VISIT PASS-EXPERT AND OTHER IMMIGRATION related
matters, please contact the following Unit for more assistance:
Professional Visit Pass-Expert (PVP)
Unit Expatriate Services Division (ESD)
Immigration Department of Malaysia Level 3 (Podium) No 15, Persiaran Perdana,
Precint 2 62550 Putrajaya
Tel : 03-88801440/1449 (General ESD Helpdesk) 03-8880 1442 (PVP)
URL : Sistem Pertanyaaan Online(SPO) https://eapp.imi.gov.my/
3. What are Expatriate Services Division (ESD) business hours?
Operating & Helpdesk Hours of Expatriate Services Division (ESD) from 8:00 am to
5:00 pm, Mondays to Fridays (excluding Public Holidays).
Lunch hours closed:
1:00 pm to 2:00 pm (Mondays to Thursdays)
12:15 pm to 2:45 pm (Fridays)
Saturday and Sunday – Closed
Public Holidays – Closed
STAGE 4
7. What are MYXpats Centre’s business hours?
Operating & Helpdesk hours of MYXpats Centre from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm on
Mondays to Fridays (excluding Public Holidays).
Payment counter open from 9:00 am to 4:00 pm on Mondays to Fridays.
Lunch hour closed:
1:00 pm to 2:00 pm (Mondays to Thursdays)
12:15 noon to 2:45 pm (Fridays)
Saturday and Sunday – Closed
Public Holidays – Closed
8. How do I get to the MYXpats Centre?
i. By Car or Cab / Taxi:
GPS Coordinate: N3 09.484 E101 36.79 Surian Tower can be accessed by the
Lebuhraya Damansara-Puchong (LDP), the New Klang Valley Expressway
(NKVE) and the SPRINT Highway’s Penchala Link.
ii. By Public Bus:
You may take the 800 RapidKL bus from KL Sentral to Bandar Utama,
Damansara. From Bandar Utama, take 801 RapidKL bus to The Curve,
Mutiara Damansara.
iii. By Public Train
You may take the MRT (Kwasa Damansara - Kajang Line) and to disembark at
Mutiara Damansara Station, Mutiara Damansara.
9. Where can I get more information about MYXpats Centre?
Visit the Expatriate Services Division (ESD) Online at esd.imi.gov.my or
Contact us at:
FOR MORE INFORMATION
MYXpats Centre is located at: 
Level 4, Surian Tower,
No 1, Jalan PJU 7/3,
Mutiara Damansara,
47810 Petaling Jaya, 
Selangor Darul Ehsan.
MYXpats Penang Branch is located at: 
One Precinct,
1B-3-27 to 1B-3-32, Level 3 
Lengkok Mayang Pasir,
11950 Bayan Baru,
Pulau Pinang.
Tel: 03-7839 7171  
Email: helpdesk@myxpats.com.my
6. Where is MYXpats Centre located?


# Page 40
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 77EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 76
Expatriate Pass Applications
1. Does the company need to submit hardcopies of uploaded documents after
the application is submitted?
The company does not need to submit hardcopies unless there is a request from
MYXpats Centre or Immigration to sight the original documents.
2. Can the applicant submit dependants together when submitting the
application?
Yes, the applicant may submit the dependants’ application together when
submitting the application.
Alternatively, the applicant may add the dependant(s) later once the principal’s
application is approved.
3. Can the applicant apply for a Visa Approval Letter together when submitting
the application?
If the applicant is out the country, an application for a Visa Approval Letter can be
made together when submitting the application.
4. How will I know if the application is approved or rejected?
You will be notiﬁed via the system. The approval letter will be issued and can be
printed directly from the system after the application has been approved.
5. How will the Visa Approval Letter be issued?
The Visa Approval Letter will be issued online and available for download.
The Visa Approval Letter is for the applicant to apply Single Entry Visa from the
Malaysian Embassy (MALAWAKIL) abroad that issues visas.
The Visa Approval Letter issued online has a validity of SIX (6) months.
If the applicant does not enter Malaysia within the SIX (6) month period, the
Visa Approval Letter will be cancelled, and a new application will need to be raised.
FREQUENTLY ASKED
QUESTIONS
6. How do I change the passport or visa details if the application has already
been approved?
Please provide an oﬃcial letter signed by the Endorser as per the Letter of
Undertaking to
Inform the MYXpats Centre of the changes together with necessary supporting
documents:
• Copy of the passport biodata page and valid pass
• Employment Pass Approval letter
• DP11 (EP) / DP11A (DP/LTSVP) / IM12 (PVP)
• Visa Approval Letter - if applicable
• Latest entry stamp/exit stamp - if applicable
STAGE 4


# Page 41
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 79EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 78
Investor Pass
1. What is the Investor Pass?
The Investor Pass is a multiple-entry visa (MEV) facility introduced for business visitors
or foreign investors to facilitate their business activities, particularly for those who
have committed to investing in Malaysia through investment agencies or relevant
authorities.
Investor Pass holders are permitted to enter Malaysia for a period of six (6) months, 
with the option to extend for an additional six (6) months, subject to the applicant’s 
justification and requirements.
2. Who is eligible to apply for the Investor Pass?
Business visitors or foreign investors who fall under any of the following three (3) 
categories are eligible to apply for the Investor Pass:
i. New Investor: Potential investors who have not had any investment record in 
Malaysia.
ii. Investor in Pipeline: Potential investors who have been identified as interested 
in making investments in Malaysia, are currently in negotiations with the Malaysian 
Government or have applied to MIDA for project approvals.
iii. Existing Investor: Investors who have investment records in Malaysia and SSM 
registered companies but are not under the employment of the company or any 
companies in Malaysia.
Note: Existing Investor category is only available for Manufacturing and Selected Services sectors 
under MIDA’s purview. Sectors governed by other agencies will be available in Phase 2.
3. How do I apply for the Investor Pass?
The Investor Pass can be applied through Xpats Gateway.
4. What is Xpats Gateway?
A seamless, end-to-end solution that enables effective communication with relevant
partner agencies throughout the application process, ensuring a smooth and hassle-
free experience for both applicants and partner agencies. All decisions are issued
electronically via Xpats Gateway, allowing for a more efficient processing by partner
agencies and well-time approvals.
FREQUENTLY ASKED
QUESTIONS
5. Can I use my personal email address to apply for the Investor Pass?
Applicants must use a business email address. Please note that public email
domains such as @gmail.com, @yahoo.com, @hotmail.com, @outlook.com,
@live.com, @msn.com, @aol.com, @icloud.com, @me.com, @mac.com,
@protonmail.com, @proton.me, @zoho.com, @gmx.com, @gmx.net,
@yandex.com, @yandex.ru, @mail.com, @fastmail.com, and @tutanota.com are
not eligible for registration.
6. Can I apply for the Investor Pass while I am in Malaysia?
Applicants must be located outside of Malaysia at the time of applying for the
Investor Pass.
7. Is the Investor Pass facility applicable throughout Malaysia?
The Investor Pass facility is only applicable in Peninsular Malaysia and the Federal
Territory of Labuan, excluding Sabah and Sarawak.
8. What documents do I need to prepare prior to the submission of the Investor
Pass application?


# Page 42
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 81
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 80
i. For processing related enquiries, please reach out to the Expatriate Services
Division (ESD) at: ppp_invest@imi.gov.my
ii. For further clarification related to documents and agency requirements, kindly
contact the Malaysian Investment Development Authority (MIDA) at:
investorpass@mida.gov.my
iii. For Xpats Gateway technical assistance, please get in touch with the MYXpats
Helpdesk at: helpdesk@myxpats.com.my
9. What if my original documents are not in English?
Documents that are not originally in English must be translated accordingly by the
respective country’s embassy or authorised translation agencies.
10. How long does it take to process and approve the Investor Pass application?
Once all required documents have been submitted, all applications will be
processed within five (5) working days.
11. Is the applicant eligible to bring a dependant/apply for a Dependant Pass?
No, applicants are not eligible to bring a dependant or apply for a Dependant Pass.
12. Can an applicant apply for a Visa with Reference together when submitting
the application?
An application for a Visa with Reference can be made upon receiving the pass
approval from the Immigration Department of Malaysia. Applicants will be notified
in the system upon approval of the application, together with the Approval Letter
and VDR (Visa Dengan Rujukan) Letter.
13. How will I know if my application is approved or rejected?
You will be notified via the system. If approved, the approval letter will be issued
and can be printed directly from the Xpats Gateway.
14. How do I request for amendment of passport or visa details after the
application has been approved?
Please send an email to ppp_invest@imi.gov.my to inform us of the changes
together with all necessary supporting documents.
15. Can I change my Investor Pass to other type of passes?
Investor Pass holders can convert their current pass to other long-term passes
issued by the Immigration Department of Malaysia subject to approval.
16. When can I submit a renewal application?
Applicants may submit a renewal application through the Xpats Gateway ONE (1)
month before the pass expiry.
17. Once I receive a notification to make payment, how long is the duration
given for me to complete it?
Applicants may complete the payment within six (6) months from the date of
notification issuance.
18. How long is the validity of the Approval Letter?
The Approval Letter is valid for six (6) months from the date of issuance. Applicants
must complete the payment within the given period, or the approval will be
revoked.
FOR MORE INFORMATION
Complete F.A.Q can be downloaded 
online at esd.imi.gov.my


# Page 43
COMPANY LETTERHEAD
No Fail :
Tarikh :
Setiausaha Bahagian Bahagian
Hal Ehwal Imigresen 
Kementerian Dalam Negeri
 Aras 4, Blok D2, Kompleks D
Pusat Pentadbiran Kerajaan Persekutuan 
62546 PUTRAJAYA
Tuan,
PERMOHONAN PENGECUALIAN GAJI MINIMUM UNTUK PENGAMBILAN 
EKSPATRIAT BAGI PAS PENGGAJIAN KATEGORI III
Merujuk kepada perkara di atas, (nama syarikat) ingin memohon pengecualian gaji 
minimum untuk pengambilan ekspatriat bagi Pas Penggajian Kategori III.
1. Untuk makluman tuan, butiran syarikat dan justiﬁkasi permohonan adalah
seperti berikut :
Nama Syarikat : 
No Pendaftaran Syarikat : 
Peringkat Jawatan  :
Bilangan Jawatan :
Nama Jawatan :
Skop Kerja :
Warganegara :
Gaji pokok bulanan :
Justiﬁkasi :
ANNEX A
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 83EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 82
ANNEX
ANNEX A (continuation)
2. Kerjasama pihak tuan dalam mempertimbangkan permohonan ini amat dihargai
dan didahului dengan ucapan terima kasih.
Yang Benar,
(Nama Pengarah) (Nama Syarikat)
s.k.
Unit Inspektorat
Bahagian Khidmat Ekspatriat Jabatan Imigresen Malaysia
Ibu Pejabat Jabatan Imigresen Malaysia Tingkat 3 (Podium)
Persiaran Perdana, Presint 2
Pusat Pentadbiran Kerajaan Persekutuan 62550 PUTRAJAYA
*Nota:
i. Surat permohonan ini tidak boleh digunakan atau dianggap sebagai pra-syarat
bagi kelulusan pas.
ii. Peringkat Jawatan merujuk kepada tahap jawatan dalam organisasi syarikat.
Contoh: Technical


# Page 44
DOCUMENT CHECKLIST FOR EP AND PVP APPLICATION
ANNEX B 
Documents
Photo
Passport
Educational Certiﬁcates
Resume / Testimonial Release Letter 
(Change of Employer ONLY)
Employment Contract
Job Description
Personal Income Tax (Renewal & 
Change of Employer ONLY)
Application Letter
Personal Bond OR Security Bond
Payslip (Renewal & 
Change of Employer ONLY)
Employment Pass
/
/
/
/
/
/
/
Professional Visit Pass-Expert
/
/
/
/
/
EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 85EXPATRIATE SERVICES DIVISION 84
ANNEX
Memorandum of Understanding 
(If Applicable)
Project Details Form (If Applicable) /
/
ANNEX C
Restricted sector for foreign involvement under the Guidelines on Foreign Participation 
in the Distributive Trade Services Malaysia
1. Supermarket / mini market (less than 3,000 square sales ﬂoor area)
2. Provision shop / general vendor
3. Convenience store (that opens for business for 24 hours)
4. News agent and miscellaneous goods store
5. Medical hall (inclined towards traditional alternative medicines plus general
 dry foodstuﬀ)
6. Fuel station with convenience store
7. Fuel station without convenience store
8. Permanent wet market store
9. Permanent pavement store
10. National Strategic Interest
11. Textile, restaurant (non-exclusive), bistro, jewellery shops
12. Others
PLEASE BE REMINDED THAT NEGLECTFUL FAILURE OF THE COMPANY TO 
SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLY WITH AN APPLICABLE OR OTHER GOVERNMENTAL 
REQUIREMENTS; OR NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT OR KNOWINGLY 
MISREPRESENT WITH THE INTENT TO OBTAIN ANY PASSES FOR THE SAID FOREIGNER/S, 
THE COMPANY, SHALL HEREBY BE LAWFULLY RESPONSIBLE TO A LEGAL ACTION UNDER 
THE IMMIGRATION ACT 1959/63 SECTION 56(F); ANY PERSON WHO MAKES OR CAUSES 
TO BE MADE ANY FALSE REPORT, FALSE STATEMENT OR FALSE REPRESENTATION IN 
CONNECTION WITH ANY OBLIGATION ON CONVICTION, BE LIABLE TO A FINE NOT 
EXCEEDING TEN THOUSAND RINGGIT OR IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM NOT EXCEEDING 
FIVE YEARS OR BOTH


# Page 45
Disclaimer:
No part of this publication may be 
reproduced, stored in a retrieval system
or transmitted, in any form or by any 
means, electronics, mechanical, 
photocopying, recording or otherwise, 
without prior permission from the 
publisher. The information in this 
publication has been updated as 
accurately as possible until the date of 
print. Although every attempt has been 
made to check the accuracy of this 
publication, Immigration Department of 
Malaysia accepts no responsibility for 
errors or omissions, if any.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
